Recruitment & Selection Policy

Introduction

PSW recognizes quality human resources as being fundamental to its success. A transparent and professional approach to recruitment processes will help PSW attract and recruit staff with the necessary skills, qualifications, and attributes to fulfill its strategic aims and support PSW's values. This document updates the previous Recruitment and Selection Policy to address gaps in the previous policy and align it with applicable laws and regulations on the recruitment of women and minorities. This document also provides guidelines for internal job sourcing and lays down the guiding principles for recruitment and selection.

Purpose/Objective

PSW considers resourcing as primarily a strategic exercise in the context of an overall workforce plan. PSW is committed to ensuring that the recruitment and selection of staff are conducted in a manner that is systematic, efficient, and promotes equality of opportunity. The purpose of this document is to provide a policy framework for establishing a fair and transparent hiring process that enables the organization to attract and select the right candidate based on merit and relevance to the job. The policy outlines the steps required for raising a requisition for a vacancy, advertising the role, selecting, hiring, and onboarding for the position.

The objective of the policy is to select the right candidates using a sound, systematic, fair, and transparent recruitment approach and to ensure that all recruitments are made in adherence to applicable laws and regulations.

Scope

The policy covers:

- All processes from HR planning to execution, including submitting authorizations for hiring, advertising, shortlisting, interviewing, and final selection.
- All positions in the company from G-1 to G-7.
- All contract types whether Permanent or Temporary.

However, the recruitment and selection of the Chief Domain Officer and the Domain Officer as deputed/seconded by Pakistan Customs and Other Government Agencies are excluded from the scope of this policy and are subject to regulations issued by the Lead Agency on the recommendation of the PSW Board of Directors from time to time. Similarly, the attachment of officers from Customs and OGAs on a temporary basis is also excluded from the scope of this policy.

Definitions

Board: Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

Chief Executive Officer (CEO): The highest-ranking executive at PSW who is responsible for leading the executive team and overall management of PSW. The CEO is also responsible for required approvals and implementation of PSW policies and procedures in financial and other matters, ensuring oversight and directions of the Board.

C-Suite: Senior executive level officers of the company in G-6 and above.

External recruitment: When the company seeks to fill a vacancy from outside the PSW organization.

Internal sourcing: When the company seeks to fill a vacancy from within its existing workforce.

CHRO: Chief Human Resource Officer who is the Head of the Human Resource Department. The CHRO will approve recruitment for the positions as per the organogram approved by the PSW BoD.

HoD: Designated Head of Department reporting to a C-suite executive.

OGA: Other Government Agencies as defined in the PSW Act, 2021.

Blood relatives: Parents, Children, and Siblings of the employee.

Intake Meeting: Developing a sourcing strategy.

Blacklisted employees: Employees who have been separated from the company due to disciplinary action or have not cleared dues/assets in their previous tenure with PSW.

Blacklisted candidates: Candidates who have taken a Job offer from PSW at least twice but did not join PSW.

Applicability

The policy applies to all employees who are involved in the hiring process, including the C-Suite, and HoDs, and to all potential job candidates.

Exceptions

There are no exceptions to the policy except those mentioned in Section 3 (Scope). All exceptions to this policy need to be endorsed by the Board.

Policy Statement

PSW considers resourcing as primarily a strategic exercise in the context of an overall workforce plan and has adopted the following guiding principles for recruitment:

Guiding Principles

All PSW recruitments shall be on merit. Candidates who attempt to influence the recruitment cycle using political or other external pressures/influence, directly or indirectly, or by using the influence of a PSW Board or staff member will not be considered. PSW shall follow a fair, transparent, and competitive recruitment process in line with global best practices and as per the provision of applicable laws and regulations. In the interest of fairness, PSW discourages the induction of a spouse or immediate blood relative of an existing employee in the organization.

No candidate under the age of 18 would be considered for employment.

Employees will retire from the service of the company upon attaining the age of 60 years (except the CEO and employees on fixed-term contracts) and may retire earlier as well based on medical grounds.

Recruitment Quotas will be as follows, subject to applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines issued by the Government from time to time:

- Disabled: Quota shall not be less than 1% of the total number of employees.
- Women: 10% quota for employment to all posts across the board.
- Minorities: 5% quota for employment to all posts across the board.

For all positions classified under the G1-G6 grades, the candidate must have obtained a minimum qualification of an HEC-recognized Bachelor’s degree (or equivalent) to meet the hiring eligibility criteria, unless otherwise explicitly stated as requiring qualifications other than a Bachelor’s degree.

If an existing employee has ANY familial relationship with an applicant, the applicant must declare the same at the time of the interview. Any potential conflict of interest will be dealt with in accordance with the Code of Conduct included in the compliance framework. During employment, if two employees become related through marriage and are employed in the same department, one of them would need to seek an opportunity in a non-interdependent department subject to the availability of a vacancy. If this transition is not made within a period of 03 months from the date of marriage/Nikah, then one of them would need to tender their resignation.

PSW is an equal opportunity employer and ensures diversity and inclusion by hiring candidates based on their profile, with no discrimination made on the basis of religion, physical ability, ethnicity, marital status, political or religious beliefs, etc.

PSW is committed to developing and implementing policies that ensure fair representation of women at all employment grades, including the C-Suite.

In accordance with recommended global best practices, PSW encourages eligible employees to apply for vacant positions. However, in such cases, the employees will go through the prescribed recruitment process and PSW will make no discrimination between internal and external candidates for an advertised position.

All Job advertisements will be posted for a period of 15 days.

All documentation relating to applicants will be treated with confidentiality. The Human Resource Department would ensure that there is no leakage of information at any stage of the process.

PSW reserves the right to evaluate applicants/candidates on the basis of pre-employment assessments that include, but are not limited to, a series of tests, interviews, and assessments.

The hiring of ex-employees, following the regular recruitment process, will rest on the merits of each case and would be subject to satisfactory internal reference checks. Candidates can only be rehired on an elevated grade after a lapse of one year from their last working day at PSW. However, if former employees are being recommended for hiring within a year of their date of resignation, this will be considered on a case-by-case basis.