CORPORATE VISION STATEMENT

Using technology and innovative solutions to enable ease in achieving effective compliance with national regulations, especially for cross-border trade and related services.

CORPORATE MISSION STATEMENT

Establish a single electronic platform to efficiently meet requirements for the regulation of imports, exports, and transit trade while supporting the simplification, harmonization, and digitization of related processes to improve ease of doing business and compliance.

VALUES

Strive for excellence - We commit to constant effort and innovation in our drive towards excellence.

Collaborative - We believe in collaboration and teamwork both internally as well as externally.

Challenging - We challenge every established process, procedure, document, policy, and law while avoiding assumptions and disregarding the status quo for bringing improvements.

Knowledge-driven - We believe in constant learning and self-improvement, being cognizant that there are always lessons to learn and value to add.

Inclusive - We appreciate the differences in opinions, perspectives, thoughts, and ideas in promoting an inclusive and 360-degree approach in our organizational culture and decision-making.

Integrity - We identify integrity as a core value promoting transparency and accountability in every task we perform.

Performance-driven - We strive for, recognize, and reward performance.

OBJECTIVES

1. Reduce time, cost, and complexity while improving the quality of experience for all stakeholders to ensure ease of doing business in cross-border trade.
2. Successfully play the role of Operating Entity as envisaged under the PSW Act 2021 and rules thereof.
3. Adopt international best practices and policy guidelines of PSW’s Governing Council in its service delivery.
4. Consistently provide a highly available, highly reliable, and secure PSW electronic platform that ensures predictable and transparent services in the cross-border trade ecosystem.
5. Continuously upgrade the PSW system and stay ahead of the curve.
6. Support the adoption of technology and digitization of related functions of entities mandated to regulate cross-border trade to improve their efficiency and transparency.
7. Support government agencies in adopting an Integrated Risk Management approach for efficient enforcement of cross-border trade-related controls.
8. Establish and operate an ICT-based Port Community System integrated with the PSW platform for efficient cargo management at seaports, airports, dry ports, and land border crossings.
9. Establish and maintain a world-class cross-border trade-related information portal under the PSW platform.
10. Enable Pakistan to integrate with any other National, Regional, and Global Single Window Systems related to cross-border trade.
11. Enable third parties to offer and exchange value-added services on the PSW platform with preference for local ICT entrepreneurs and firms.
12. Provide statistically accurate trade data to stakeholders for evidence-based decision-making.
13. Enable Pakistan to efficiently and timely meet its commitments under bilateral and multilateral commitments related to cross-border trade.
14. Act as an innovation hub for the design and testing of ICT-based solutions to improve Pakistan’s integration into global value chains, international trade, and logistics.
15. Participate in ICT-based projects in Pakistan and beyond, especially in the public sector.
16. Attract and retain the best in class human resources to provide services in Pakistan and beyond.