
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW


PSW Employee Referral Program Policy is designed to recognize and reward employees who take the initiative to refer their friends and acquaintances to join the organization. The employee referral program provides an opportunity for the employees to earn monetary benefits and be able to contribute to creating the best team of qualified and efficient people, working for the success of the company, and making “PSW” a desirable place to work.

The goal of the Employee Referral Program is to make inbound referrals more sustainable and to identify potential candidates. Such interventions are considered to be one of the most productive and effective recruiting strategies available to hiring teams. The purpose of this policy is to provide corporate guidelines pertaining to employee referrals and Referral Incentive payout.

All employees are eligible for referrals except the fixed term employees, third party staff hired by PSW working in different capacities, C-suite members, Hiring Manager, Senior management of the hiring department, Interview assessment panelists and the HR department employees. In order to ensure transparency and fairness, Referral incentive will be disbursed in three phases: At the time of joining, After successful completion of the probation period, After successful completion of one year of continuous service. The following amounts have been proposed as Referral Incentive payouts:

Incentive Disbursement Schedule:

Referral category Joining Probation One Year service Total

General Referral positions 10,000 10,000 25,000
Hard to fill position 20,000 10,000 20,000 50,000

In view of the foregoing, an Employee Referral Program Policy, attached herewith, is to be presented before the Human Resource/Nomination Committee for its review and recommendations to the Board for approval, please.

Chief Human Resource Officer

Chief Executive Officer

---

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

Reference: ER/POL/v1-23

Document Version: 1

Maintaining and Implementation Responsibility

Effective Date: Next Review Date: After Every One Year

Reviewed by: Prepared by

Name: Usman Mahboob Name: Syed Sohaib Hassan
Designation: People & OD Designation: CHRO
Manager

Confidential Information: The information provided in this document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this document may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party without the express written permission of PSW.

PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

1. Introduction

The PSW Employee Referral Programme Policy is designed to recognize and reward employees who take the initiative to refer their friends and acquaintances to join the organization. The employee referral program provides an opportunity for the employees to earn monetary benefit and be able to contribute to creating the best team of qualified and efficient people, working for the success of the company and making “PSW” a desirable place to work.

2. Purpose / Objectives

We strongly believe that our existing employees' knowledge of PSW's culture and skill requirements makes them better positioned to find the right fit for the open position(s). These employees feel trusted and valued since they are participating in the company’s future and growth and if their referral gets the job, they feel a sense of pride and accomplishment. The goal of Employee Referral Programme is to make inbound referrals more sustainable and to identify potential candidates. Such interventions are considered to be one of the most productive and effective recruiting strategies available to hiring teams. The purpose of this policy is to provide corporate guidelines pertaining to employee referrals and employee referral incentive payout.

3. Scope

This provides guidelines and governance model to qualify for Employee Referral Programme.

4. Definitions

Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW and is responsible for leading the executive team and overall management of PSW. He is also responsible for required approvals and implementation of PSW policies and procedures in financial and other matters, ensuring oversight and directions of the Board. C-Suite means the senior executive level officers of the company in G-6 and above. Referee means employee who refers a candidate to the HR team. Referral or Referred candidate means candidate who is being referred by the referee(an employee). PSW recruitment committee consists of CHRO and concerned CXO/HoD. Senior Management of Hiring department consists of HoDs looking after other sub departments. Hard to fill referral position pool consists of positions that are niche, based on lack of candidate pipeline and the length it takes to find viable candidates (time to fill) as determined by the PSW recruitment committee. General employee referral consists of those positions that are hired on a regular basis and can be easily sourced.

5. Applicability

This Employee Referral Program Policy applies to every eligible employee who refers a candidate to the Human Resource team.

6. Eligibility

All employees are eligible for referrals except the fixed term employees, Third party staff hired by PSW working in different capacities, C-suite members, Hiring Manager, Senior management of the hiring department, Interview assessment panelists and the HR department employees.

7. Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board.

8. Policy Statement

PSW considers resourcing as primarily and strategic exercise in the context of an overall workforce plan and has adopted the following guiding principles for referral policy:

Guiding Principles

Hiring managers cannot refer anyone for a position for which they are directly or indirectly responsible but they can refer someone for a position that’s in a different department. If two or more employees refer the same candidate, only the first referrer will qualify for referral incentive. In the event of any dispute/issue, the final decision will be made by CHRO. As part of our recruitment process, PSW employees are eligible to refer external candidates who, if hired, can result in a referral reward that may vary from position to position. Refer to Annexure “A”. Referral incentive will be disbursed in proportions: At the time of joining, After successful completion of the probation period, After successful completion of one year of continuous service. There is no cap on the number of referrals an employee can make in a year. All rewards shall be considered accordingly. Ex-Interns can be referred for open positions. Referral incentive will not be applicable in case the ex-intern is referred for a position under the same HoD. All Permanent positions qualify for full referral incentive. All Fixed term contract positions qualify for half of the referral incentive.

All referred candidates will be evaluated for employment consistent with PSW’s policies and procedures. Candidate must not have been employed by PSW in the previous 12 months on a Permanent contract. All information regarding the hiring decision will remain strictly confidential. Any disputes or interpretations of the policy will be handled through the Human Resource Department. Referral incentive will be subject to applicable taxation.

9. Roles and Responsibilities

HR Department will be responsible for the evaluation of referrals and further disbursement of referral incentive in case of successful hiring. Employees are responsible for notifying HR department for any candidate they referred in accordance with the rules of this policy.

10. Information Flow and Reports

All data shall be maintained by the HR department. Key statistics shall be shared with the Board of Directors or its Human Resource Committee, the CEO, and other members of the C-suite on a regular basis.

11. Compliance

The HR Department shall ensure compliance with this Policy. Intentional deviation from this policy will be considered unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective.

12. Scope Limitation

None except as mentioned above.

13. Amendments

The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time. Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the Board’s Human Resource Committee and approved by the Board of Directors except for changes in Annexures that can be changed on the approval of CEO on recommendation of CHRO.

14. Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the HR Department.

---

ANNEXURE “A”

All positions shall be considered “General Referral” positions if otherwise recommended by PSW Recruitment Committee to be tagged as “Hard to fill” referral positions. PSW Recruitment Committee shall update the Hiring Manager, Concerned CXO and the HR Department on tagging a position as “Hard to fill” referral position. All external position announcements will be made on PSW Job portal. Employees will be required to fill out a form (Annexure B).

Incentive will be disbursed on following criteria:

Incentive Disbursement Schedule

Referral category Joining Time Probation clearance One Year service completion Total (PKR)

General Referral positions 10,000 5,000 10,000 25,000
Hard to fill position 20,000 10,000 20,000 50,000

HR Department will notify the referring employee of their eligibility and time frame of when they will be eligible for their referral reward via email. HR Department will complete the Employee Referral Incentive Disbursement Form (Annexure-C) and submit to the Finance department/ Payroll to pay the referral incentive. The payment will be reflected in the employee’s salary.

---

ANNEXURE “B”

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAM

Thank you for taking the time to refer potential candidates to help with serving PSW’s mission, fulfilling PSW’s vision, and exemplifying PSW’s values! We are most excited about you helping with referring candidates that will be a great fit for our organization. Before you send your referral, we asked that you all review the full guidelines and send any and all your inquiries to hr@psw.gov.pk.

Some quick highlights of the Employee Referral Program:

If the candidate you refer is hired, you will receive a referral incentive. However, you are required to be employed by PSW when the referral incentive is paid. Candidate must not have been