Executive Summary

The Pakistan Single Window Company (PSWC), incorporated under Section 42 of the Companies Act, 2017 in April 2020, was formally notified as the operating entity for the PSW system in June 2021. PSW organizational structure was put in place in January 2021 to operationalize the company and as the company was in the process of being established, certain policies including the pay and compensation package for the employees were devised and implemented to address immediate needs of the employees including the policy on healthcare benefits. However, it has been observed that the current policy is not equitable, discriminates between different categories of employees, and is not aligned with recommended best practices. After an extensive review of the existing policy on health care benefits to the PSW employees taking into consideration employee welfare, the financial cost to the company, and the practices adopted by other companies, this policy note proposes a transition from the current system of salary based medical allowance to a group health insurance plan that is more equitable, provides better and more comprehensive health coverage, and results in cost savings to the employees as well as to PSW. Implementation of the proposal will result in a one-time transition cost of Rs. 29 million but will result in net savings of Rs.100 million over a period of next three years.

Background

Health care benefits are an important component of employee compensation packages and have a direct impact on employee turnover, recruitment and retention policies, compensation costs, employee absenteeism, employee morale and productivity. Companies usually offer healthcare benefits in two ways:

1. Medical Allowance-this could be either:
   a. a fixed stipend paid in addition to the salary or
   b. a reimbursement of medical claims as and when they accrue according to specified spending limits. In either of the above, employees themselves are responsible for arranging healthcare.
   
2. Group Health Insurance- in this case the employees are offered group health insurance by the company. The premium is either paid by the company or in some cases co-shared with the employees. Group health insurance offers wider coverage, access to a wider network of doctors and hospitals, and may include employees’ dependents at a marginal additional cost. PSW is currently paying medical allowance to all its employees (with the exception of the domain officers) i.e., @ 2 gross salaries (basic salary plus house rent allowance) per annum. Domain officers, on the other hand, are being paid @ 2 Gross salaries as per last government pay slip {without factoring in the PSW allowance admissible to them) due to lack of clarity on their admissible benefits. The medical allowances are essentially taxable raises given to every employee over and above the salary amount negotiated during recruitment. The employee may or may not spend the same on healthcare.

Problems with the Current Policy

Inequitable: allowance provided to the lowest paid employee of the company is inadequate to meet even basic healthcare requirements while high salaried individuals receive even higher allowances. Discriminatory: the policy discriminates between regular employees and domain officers seconded by the government which is creating discontent amongst the domain officers. Negative impact on employee recruitment and retention: it is challenging to attract and retain employees in absence of a comprehensive health insurance plan especially from G-1 to G-4 levels. Higher financial cost to the Company: As per the current policy, the PSW will be paying Rs.85 million in medical allowances which are projected to increase to Rs.112 million in three years time assuming the total headcount to be 229 as depicted in the table below.

Objectives

A realization of the above-mentioned problems triggered a review of the existing policy by PSW's senior management. Corporate policies and recommended best practices adopted by other similar sized companies were also consulted. PSW's senior management including the Head of HR, CFO, CTO, CDO, Company Secretary and the Chief Internal Auditor were also included in the consultations. Finally, employee ownership and consent has been obtained by circulating the draft proposal through respective heads of department.

The objective of the proposed policy is to:

Provide comprehensive healthcare benefits to all employees in an equitable manner: Remove the difference between PSW regular employees and domain officers; Improve working environment and employee benefits to attract. talented individuals; Reduce burden on company finances while at the same time ensure that the employees’ financial interests are not adversely affected.

Policy Options

During the review process, the following options were taken into consideration:

Option 1: Continue with the existing mechanism with necessary adjustment in the medical allowance of domain officers only.
Option 2: Replace the medical allowance with a comprehensive group insurance scheme.

Based on the market research and quotes obtained from leading health insurance companies the following medical plan was found to be most suitable:

Number of Employees: 229

Total Cost (Rs. in Millions)

Description          OPD coverage-Rs. 100,000/- per employee per annum on reimbursement basis    IPD coverage-Rs.500,000/- to 1,000,000/- per employee per annum including immediate family & Parents
Total               26                                                                                     24
Financial Impact

The financial impact of the above two options is given below:

Risks

Clearly, Option 2 offers the better policy option however despite its better coverage, the implementation of the proposal will result in loss of income to PSW employees of all grades and is likely to lead to the following negative outcomes:

Negative employee morale. Resignations/job switching. Negative market sentiment about the company. Difficulty to attract competent resource in future. Legal challenges.

In order to mitigate these risks, a one-time adjustment in salary equivalent to the total amount of the current medical allowance less proposed OPD coverage of Rs.100,000/- (reimbursable on submission of medical claims/receipts) may be considered for all employees’ on one time basis. This will result in transition costs of Rs. 29 million but will still result in net savings of Rs. 100 million in the next 3 years. On individual basis, each employee will be enjoying enhanced and more equitable insurance coverage for themselves, their immediate families and parents. This one-time adjustment will not be offered to new employees hired after the approval of the proposed policy.

Recommendation

In view of the foregoing, Policy Option 2 is recommended to be adopted by PSW along with a one-time adjustment in salary of all employees as proposed above. On approval, the group health insurance will be procured through a public tender.

Chief Financial Officer

Chief Executive Officer

Contact Information: info@psw.gov.pk | www.psw.gov.pk | Ph: +92 51 9245605 | PSW Head Office, NTC Center, G-5/2, Islamabad