PS L&D POLICY

1. Introduction
PSW operates on a knowledge-driven culture which means that the company believes in constant learning and growth. Having a learning culture in place not only enhances employee productivity and improves overall operational efficiency but also creates a talent pool with a high level of professional competence and up-to-date industry knowledge. The learning & development policy will provide guidelines detailing the support the company shall provide for employees’ professional development and growth.

2. Purpose:
The main purpose of the learning & development policy is to create and foster the growth of a knowledge-based environment within PSW. To develop a culture of learning and development where employees feel valued because of their knowledge and skills, and their ability to impart knowledge to others. To ensure that the knowledge and skill base of PSW employees is such that it can fulfill the future needs of the company, both at functional as well as non-functional level mainly on the technology side and on development of soft skills and leadership abilities. To maximize the learning opportunities throughout PSW by developing internal resources and utilizing services of external resources to impart knowledge, sharpen the existing skills, share best practices, and stimulate learning. To achieve a high level of employee satisfaction with the learning and development activities. To measure and reward PSW employees for their efforts and contributions to developing a knowledge-based environment. To identify high-potential individuals and provide them with tailored development opportunities, which in turn contributes to effective succession planning readiness. Ensure a continuous pipeline of talented individuals to meet the organization’s management needs.

3. Scope:
The scope of a Learning and Development (L&D) policy refers to the extent and range of activities, strategies, and guidelines that PSW defines and implements to enhance the knowledge, skills, and abilities of its employees. An L&D policy outlines the framework within which the PSW plans, delivers, and evaluates learning initiatives to achieve its strategic objectives.

4. Definitions:
Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company. BHRC means the HR committee of the Board of Directors of the PSW Company. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who will be responsible for the management of PSW and the implementation of its policies and procedures in financial and other matters, subject to oversight and directions of the Board. CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer who is the Head of the Human Resource Department. HoD means the designated Head of Department reporting to a C-suite executive. Line Manager means an employee who has another employee (s) reporting to him. Officers on Deputation means Government officers temporarily deputed in PSW. BHRC means Board of Directors subcommittee for Human Resource.

5. Applicability:
This policy applies to all confirmed permanent employees of PSW and Officers on deputation.

Policy Statement
Learning and development take its mandate from one of the PSW core Values i.e., Knowledge-Driven through its people. PSW is committed to having a workforce prepared to meet current and future business challenges by providing its employees with appropriate opportunities to develop knowledge, skills, and competencies. The learning and development of an employee would be strategically linked with Performance management and Succession planning of PSW. Learning provided to one employee will be shared among peers. Sharing of Learning material and creating a pool of ideas and innovation at the workplace will create healthy competition.

General Guidelines
Identifying Learning & Development Needs:
Identification of learning needs is the first phase of the learning & development program. It is based on learning needs related to the requirements of the individual employee and the needs of the Company. After analyzing the need for training, the Learning & Development team, in collaboration with HoDs, will design an annual plan of training. The learning needs of each employee will be identified through the following mechanisms to ensure that learning efforts are targeted and aligned with organizational and individual needs.

Learning & Development Needs Mechanisms
Information gathered from the performance reviews Every quarter. Information gathered from succession planning activity Every 02 years. Results from the Employee Engagement Survey (EES). Individual Behavioral Training Needs Assessment (TNA) to identify and address the skill gaps and training requirements based on specific job roles. Functional Training Needs Assessment (TNA). Budget Each year the HR department will conduct an exercise to establish a comprehensive training budget. This training budget would cover the costs of internal/external training, workshops/seminars/professional memberships, certifications, e-learnings, foreign training, etc.

Formal learning opportunities
Formal learning opportunities refer to all those training interventions that support the functional need identified by the employee and the Line management through the Training Need Assessment (TNA) exercises by the L&D team. The formal learning opportunities are time-bound. These include but are not limited to:
Technical Skills Training courses. Attending conferences, workshops, seminars. Professional certifications/exams/annual subscriptions (e.g., PMP, SHRM-CP/SCP, Six Sigma, CPA, ACCA, CA, etc.) and exam preparation courses. Formal training via Online Learning and E-Learning Platforms. To support the employees’ professional growth, PSW will reimburse the fee for professional affiliations/memberships such as ICAP, CIPD, SHRM etc. Request for reimbursement for professional affiliations/ memberships is to be routed through HR after approval from HoD. The company will reimburse the cost of only one affiliation/membership per financial year in case of employees holding multiple affiliations.

Informal learning opportunities
Informal learning opportunities refer to learning experiences that occur outside of formal educational institutions or structured curriculum. These opportunities are often self-directed and driven by personal interests and the desire to acquire new knowledge or skills. Informal learning plays a vital role in fostering continuous growth and innovation within organizations. Unlike formal education, informal learning is typically less structured and may not lead to a formal certification.

Examples of informal learning opportunities and how the L&D team can play a valuable role in supporting and enhancing informal learning experiences are listed below. This action plan outlines strategies and steps to support and encourage informal learning among employees within our organization. By leveraging the power of informal learning, we aim to enhance employee development, knowledge sharing, and overall organizational effectiveness.

Interventions from L&D
Reading: Learning from books, articles, online resources, and other written materials on subjects of interest. Podcasts: Listening to podcasts that discuss various subjects, from science and history to personal development and entrepreneurship. Networking and Conversations: Engaging in discussions and conversations with peers, mentors, or experts to learn from their experiences and perspectives. Workplace Learning: Acquiring new skills or knowledge through on-the-job experiences, projects, and collaborations. Online Tutorials and Videos: Utilizing online platforms like YouTube, Coursera, or Udemy to access video tutorials and instructional content on a wide range of topics.

Foster a culture of knowledge sharing: The learning team will promote employee engagement in knowledge-sharing sessions to cultivate a culture of sharing knowledge. The trainer will be recognized for their role in this effort, and this acknowledgment can serve as a motivating factor for employees to persist in self-directed learning and to feel appreciated for their contributions. Example: Employees participation — in Knowledge sharing meetups.

Provide resources/ platforms for informal learning activities: The learning team shall develop short, focused learning modules that address specific skills or topics and can be easily integrated into employees’ work deliverables. Such as subscriptions to online learning platforms, access to relevant books or materials etc. Example: Provide learning resources like articles on cultivating great teams, characteristics of high-performance teams etc. Assign e-learning courses to managers like Inclusive Leadership, Coaching Skills for Leaders & Managers.

Celebrate and recognize informal learning achievements: The learning team shall highlight success stories where employees have benefited from informal learning. This can inspire others and create a culture of learning. Example: Showcase the achievements through internal communication and rewards. Earned certificate is to be displayed on LinkedIn, Viva engage. Success Stories to be shared on Viva engage & social media. Support Self-directed learning: By actively supporting and facilitating informal learning, training teams can create a culture of continuous learning within the organization, where employees are empowered to take ownership of their professional development in meaningful and effective ways. Examples: Critical Business Functional Need (Course on Data Analysis, Managerial courses etc.)

Employee Development Programs
These are structured programs designed to support employees who are not meeting performance expectations. These plans outline specific areas of improvement, set performance targets, and establish a timeline for improvement. These programs are known as PIPs (Performance Improvement Plans) or (Performance Development Plan) PDP which often involve close supervision, additional training, coaching, and regular progress reviews to help employees succeed in the timeline assigned by Line manager/HoD. The learning team, in collaboration with HR team members, will support employees and line managers in defining some actionable target areas and development needs that will assist employees in improving their job roles in accordance with the specified competency framework.

Leadership Development Programs
Leadership Development Programs identify, nurture, and enhance the leadership skills and abilities of employees within an organization. These programs aim to develop individuals who can effectively lead teams, drive organizational success, and guide the organization toward its strategic goals. In fostering a culture of effective leadership within an organization, the learning team will implement collaborative and strategic leadership learning interventions (as per Leadership Competency Framework) that significantly contribute to the achievement of organizational goals. These leadership programs also include training on inclusive leadership to ensure that leaders are equipped to lead diverse teams effectively. The learning team shall play a critical role in providing the necessary resources