
 

 

info@psw.gov.pk
www.psw.gov.pk

Ph: +92 51 9245605

Or @ RK

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Reference: R&S/POL/v2-23
Document Version: 2

 

 

| Custodian | HR & Admin
Chief Human Resource Officer

 

Maintaining and Implementation
_ Responsibility

 

 

 

 

 

  

Effective Date | BoD Approval Date
"Next Review Date | As and when required
| Prepared by | Reviewed by

 

| Signature: ia | Signature: ps
Name: (Saaipour Wakbood | Name: SN LOAKKKEQ WAR ae
Designation: cope Rod Noaxagt Designation: Cs S

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party
without the express written permission of PSW.
+ PSV

*

yo

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

introduction

PSW recognizes quality human resources as being fundamental to its success. A transparent
and professional approach toward recruitment processes will help enable PSW to attract and
recruit staff with the necessary skills, qualifications, and attributes to fulfill its strategic aims and
support PSW’'s values. This document updates the previous Recruitment and Selection Policy to
address gaps in the previous policy and align it with the applicable laws & regulations on the
recruitment of women and minorities. This document also provides the guidelines for internal
job sourcing and lays down the guiding principles for recruitment and selection.

Purpose/Obiective

PSW considers resourcing as primarily a strategic exercise in the context of an overall workforce
plan. PSW is committed to ensuring that the recruitment and selection of staff are conducted in
a manner that is systematic, and efficient and promotes equality of opportunity. The purpose
of this document is to provide a policy framework for establishing a fair and transparent hiring
process that enables the organization to attract and select the right candidate based on merit
and relevance to the job. The policy outlines the steps required for raising a requisition for a
vacancy, advertising the role, selecting, hiring, and Onboarding for the position.

The objective of the policy is to select the right candidates using a sound, systematic, fair, and
transparent recruitment approach and to ensure that all the recruitments are made in adherence
to applicable laws and regulations.

. Scope

The policy covers:

e All processes from HR planning to execution including submitting authorizations for hiring,
advertising, shortlisting, interviewing, and final selection.

¢ All positions in the company from G-1 to G-7.

¢ All contract types whether Permanent or Temporary.

However, recruitment and selection of the Chief Domain Officer and the Domain Officer as
deputed/seconded by Pakistan Customs and Other Government Agencies is excluded from
the scope of this policy and is subject to regulations issued by the Lead Agency on the
recommendation of the PSW Board of Directors from time to time. Similarly, the attachment
of officers from Customs and OGAs on a temporary basis is also excluded from the scope of
this policy.

4, Definition

Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest ranking
executive at PSW who is responsible for leading the executive team and overall
management of PSW. He is also responsible for requir2d approvals and implementation
PSW

®* © @ @ @

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

of PSW policies and procedures in financial and other matters, ensuring oversight and
directions of the Board.

C-Suite means the senior executive level officers of the company in G-6 and above.
External recruitment means when the company seeks to fill a vacancy from outside the
PSW organization.

Internal sourcing means when the company seeks to fill a vacancy from within its existing
workforce.

CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer who is the Head of the Human Resource
Department. The CHRO will approve recruitment for the positions as per the organogram
approved by the PSW BoD.

HoD means the designated Head of Department reporting to a C-suite executive.

OGA means Other Government Agencies as defined in the PSW Act, 2021.

Blood relatives mean Parents, Children and Siblings of the employee.

Intake Meeting means developing a sourcing strategy.

Blacklisted employees include but are not limited to employees who have been separated
from the company due to disciplinary action or have not cleared dues/assets in their
previous tenure with PSW.

Blacklisted candidates include employees who have taken a Job offer from PSW at least
twice but did not join PSW.

5. Applicability

The policy applies to all employees who are involved in the hit ing process including the C-Suite,
and HoDs, and to all potential job candidates.

Exceptions

There are no exceptions to the policy except those mentioned in Section 3(Scope). All
exceptions to this policy need to be endorsed by the Board.

Policy Statement

PSW considers resourcing as primarily a strategic exercise in the context of an overall workforce
plan and has adopted the following guiding principles for recruitment:

i. Guiding Principles

All PSW recruitments shall be on merit. Candidates who attempt to influence the
recruitment cycle using political or other external pressures/influence, directly or
indirectly, or by using the influence of a PSW Board or staff member will not be considered.
PSW shall follow a fair, transparent, and competitive recruitment process in line with global
best practices and as per the provision of applicable laws and regulations. In the interest
of fairness, PSW discourages the induction of a spouse or immediate blood relative of an
existing employee in the organization.

No candidate under the age of 18 would be considered for employment.

Employee will retire from the service of the company upon attaining the age of 60 Years
(except the CEO and employees on fixed term contract) and may retire earlier as well based
on medical grounds
PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Recruitment Quotas will be as follows. All these quotas will be subject to the applicable
laws, regulations, and guidelines issued by the Government from time to time:

- Disabled: Quota shall not be less than 1% of total number of employees.
- Women: 10% quota for employment to all posts across the board.
- Minorities: 5% quota for employment to all posts across the board.

For all positions classified under the G1-Gé grades, the candidate must have obtained a
minimum qualification of an HEC-recognized Bachelor’s degree (or equivalent), to meet
the hiring eligibility criteria, unless otherwise explicitly stated as requiring qualifications
other than a Bachelor’s degree.

If an existing employee has ANY familial relationship with an applicant, the applicant must
declare the same at the time of the interview. Any potential conflict of interest will be dealt
with in accordance with the Code of Conduct included in the compliance framework.
During employment, if two employees become related through marriage and are employed
in the same department, one of them would need to seek an opportunity in a non-
interdependent department subject to the availability of a vacancy. In case this transition
is not made within a period of 03 months from the date of marriage/Nikah, then one of
them would need to tender their resignation.

PSW is an equal opportunity employer and ensures diversity & inclusion by hiring
candidates based on their profile and no discrimination shall be made on the basis of,
religion, physical ability, ethnicity, marital status, political or religious beliefs, etc.

PSW is committed to developing and implementing policies that ensure fair representation
of women at all employment grades including the C-Suite.

In accordance with recommended global best practices, PSW encourages eligible
employees to apply for vacant positions, however, in such cases, the employees will go
through the prescribed recruitment process and PSW will make no discrimination between
internal and external candidates for an advertised position.

All Job advertisements will be advertised for a period of 15 Days.

All documentation relating to applicants will be treated with confidentiality. The Human
Resource Department would ensure that there is no leakage of information at any stage
of the process.

PSW reserves the right to evaluate applicants/candidates on the basis of pre-employment
assessments that include, but are not limited to a series of tests, interviews, and
assessments.

The hiring of ex-employees, following the regular recruitment process, will rest on the
merits of each case and would be subject to satisfactory internal reference checks.
Candidates can only be rehired on an elevated grade after a lapse of 01 year from their
last working day at PSW. However, if former employees are being recommended for hiring
within a year of their date of resignation, the candidate would be hired at the same grade
level and salary.

The probationary period is three (03) months and cannot be extended beyond (06) months
from the joining date.

Based on 2" review after six (06) months of unsatisfactory performance, the employment
may be terminated. Conversely, the probation period may also be extended for 3 months
(the total probation period will be six months) upon the Line Manager’s/HODs
recommendation and CHRO’s approval over email.

HR team will make this approval email as part of the employee file.
PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ii, Types of Contracts
PSW offers the following types of contracts:

e Permanent Term contracts: Employees hired for an open contract and are eligible for full
benefits as approved by the Board of Directors including mobile allowance, internet
allowance, fuel/conveyance allowance, festive allowance, Leave Fair Assistance, Leave
encashment, day-care allowance, life, and health & life insurance, paid leaves, and
provident fund , and other allowances as notified by the company with the approval of the
BoD from time to time.

e Fixed Term contracts: Employees hired for a certain length of time or for the performance
of a specific activity and are not entitled for any company benefit. Fixed term contracts
shall be offered for a period of up to eleven months at a time and shall expire on the
completion of the term or activity. Such contracts may be renewed by the management if
the services of the person are still required by the company based on his/her performance.
However, the company may consider converting the short-term position to a permanent
position if a person has been continually appointed on that position for at least two terms
based on availability of position in the approved Organogram as per Internal Job Sourcing.

iii, Recruitment Plan & Formulation

e Every department head within PSW shall prepare their annual recruitment plan identifying
the staffing needs of their respective departments and submit the same to CHRO through
their C-suite Executive latest by March 31st every year for review and approval by the
CEO, and inclusion in the annual budget.

e¢ CHRO shall review and evaluate the annual recruitment plan with respective departments
and submit the finalized recruitment plan to the CEO for approval. After CEO’s approval,
CHRO shall communicate the number of estimated positions including new positions to
the Finance Department for budget allocation and planning.

e CEO will recommend the annual recruitment plan to the HRC for their review and for
further approval from the board.

e The recruitment and selection process shall follow the procedure as prescribed in
Annexure-A. The procedure including the templates for various forms prescribed therein
may be revised/amended by the HR department with the approval of the CEO.

iv. Internal Job Sourcing

Employees interested in working for a different department, transitioning to a different role
within PSW, or looking to relocate from Karachi to PSW Headquarters or vice versa may
apply for a vacant position within PSW at the same grade or higher. However, they shall be
required to compete with other shortlisted candidates for the position and shall only be
selected on merit. Internal employees can be considered for grade elevation if they meet the
minimum job criteria set by the HR department. They must qualify through the regular
requirement process just like all external applicants.

HR shall circulate all vacant positions within the organization to provide eligible employees
the opportunity to apply for a vacant position. The internal candidate's performance
evaluations and disciplinary record will be examined at the time of shortlisting.
*
ae PSW RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

To qualify for the IS, employees must have a minimum of 01 years of service with PSW,
along with a minimum of 01 year of service at their current designation.

Employees can only apply either at the same job grade or one level up in the US.

Once a candidate has been selected on the IJS and has provided their consent to join, the
current line management will release the employee within a maximum of 15 working days
after being notified of the selection; failing which, the employee shall stand automatically
released to resume the new portfolio after the 15 working day period. Refer Annexure-L

The selected candidate would be given a salary change of up to 20% or a minimum of the
next grade salary whichever is higher based on approval from CHRO. The CHRO and the
CEO reserve the right to review and accordingly revise the pay structure considering
industry/market dynamics, internal and external equity, inflation, etc.

Where the job requires an employee to relocate from their home station, the selected
candidate will be given relocation benefits as per the Relocation Policy based on budget
availability.

8. Roles And Responsibilities

The roles and responsibilities of the concerned officials of the PSW shall be as given in
Annexure-B.

9. information Flow and Reports
All recruitment data shall be maintained by the HR department. Key statistics shall be shared
with the Board of Directors or its Human Resource Committee, CEO, and other members of the
C-suite on regular basis.

19. Compliance
The HR team shall ensure the compliance of this Policy. Intentional deviation from this policy
will be considered as unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective.
All forms specified in this Policy will be included in detailed SOP developed by the CHRO and
the HR team and approved by the CEO.

i. Amendments

The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time.
Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the Human Resource Committee of
the Board and approved by the Board of Directors.

12. Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the Human Resources Department.
*
evs
e«
*

PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION-POLICY

ANNEXURE - A

Recruitment And Selection Procedure

Recruitment Requisition Form

The Head of department where the workforce is required shall review the available job
description and in case a change is required or a new role is to be hired as per approved
Organogram, a “Role clarification form” (ANNEXURE-C) is to be filled and reviewed by
HR team.
The Head of department submit a requisition form along with the approved Job
Description to the HR team in the following cases:

o The incumbent has resigned/terminated

o Anew position is created

o The incumbent has been transferred to a new role as per US
HR team shall review the job description and scrutinize whether the requisition form
explains the need for hiring: the necessary skills/qualifications for job, headcount budget
availability, type of contract and the timelines within which the resource is required to be
hired.

iv. Based on confirmation, Recruitment requisition form will be processed through PSW
connect otherwise HR team may seek additional information from the concerned line
management. Refer Annexure-D.

Job Description

The HR team shall schedule an intake meeting with the hiring manager to develop a
“Sourcing plan” by understanding more about the jok, the essential requirements,
Sourcing channels, Job advertising channels to be used along with the profile of the ideal
candidate.

Based on the discussions, the HR team shall review the job description with the help of
concerned department.

The advertisement shall also be circulated as per agreed “Sourcing plan”. Refer to
Annexure-E.

Job Advertisement

The HR team shall use the “Sourcing plan” agreed with Head of Department and prepare
an appropriate advertisement using the information specified in the job description. Refer
to Annexure-F.

Advertisement should include the following:

Position title

Job description

Qualification

Employing department

Experience criteria

Position location

Type of position, depending upon need and recruitment scenario.
Closing date

Mode of application submission (mailing address, e-mail address etc.)
Age Limit
PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

e Any special instructions as per job requirements

iii. The HR team would take sign off on the Job Advertisement from the Head of Department
over email after the Intake meeting.

iv. PSW uses following mediums/means for advertising/attracting prospects preferably as
per following available channels in one or multiple combinations as agreed with line while
developing the sourcing plan in the “Intake meeting.” However, all the job advertisements
need to be advertised in National/ Provincial/Regional newspapers.

Company (PSW) website

Job portal website

National/Provincial/ Regional newspapers
Head hunting through recruitment agencies
Use of professional associations
Universities/Career Fairs/Placement Offices
CV Databank

Employee Referrals

Social Media

v. Departments are expected to give at least one working week prior notice to Human
Resource Department for publishing a vacancy announcement.
vi. The job should be advertised for a minimum 15-day period for receiving application
from the date of the advertisement.
vii. The recruitment process(job offer placement) will be closed within 75 days from the
date of advertisement for G1 to G5 grade positions while 120 days for G6 and G7 grade

positions. Hiring time may vary for special projects or bulk hiring.

Selection Process

PSW is an equal opportunity employer which means employees are hired regardless of race,
colour, nationality, caste, creed, or gender on the basis of qualification required as specified
by the job description, including education, experience, training, skill, physical requirement,
or any other condition required to perform satisfactorily the duties of the position. It is
PSW's objective to ensure that it builds a competent and efficient workforce who, with the
necessary skills and attributes, fulfil our aims and support our business goals.

The criteria for selection of candidates shall be same for all and must possess the following
attributes.

Transparent

Timely and cost effective
Equitable

Free from any conflict of interest

Selection of a candidates will be subject to consensus amongst all relevant stakeholders.
Relevant stakeholders in this case include, but are not limited to the hiring manager, HR
team, CHRO, relevant Chief Officers, and the CEO (in case of Job grade G-5 and below
hiring).

The Board of Directors will finalize the appointments of the Head of Internal Audit. For all
other C-suite level (Job Grade 6) appointments the CEO can recommend candidates for the
Board of Directors approval.
a PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Receiving Of Applications

CVs of applicants for the position can be received via different mediums such as.

e E-mail
e Job portal website
e Courier service

Positions shall be advertised mentioning the closing date of advertisement CVs will not
be entertained and will cease to be valid after the closing date as mentioned in the
advertisement. However, CHRO and Head of Department may allow maximum one week
extension in CVs receiving with mutual consent.

The HR team shall receive all applications and shall screen them according to the
approved job description and specifications before sharing with concerned Department
Heads.

The HR team reserves the right to reject any application which does not conform to the
job specifications or candidate is marked “blacklisted” by CHRO.

Applicant’s personal information and CV shall only be made available to HR team and
relevant stakeholders.

Screening Of Job Applications

Once the advertising period is complete, the HR team shall review each application to
determine who meets the requirements listed in the screening criteria.

Regret email is sent to candidates who are not selected for the “Initial screening stage.”
Refer to Annexure-L.

Under no circumstances shall a HR team member contact the current employer or other
references of a candidate during the screening process.

Shortlisting

Only those candidates who match the basic requirements are shortlisted from the long list
of applications for an initial phone screening by HR team.

A minimum of Five (5) applicants shall be short-listed for review by HoD of requesting
department and three (3) top candidates will be called in for interviews for each vacancy.

Regret email shall be sent to candidates who are not selected for the “Interview stage.”
Refer to Annexure-L.

Interview Questions and Test

HR team shall assist and facilitate Head of Department in developing technical tests (If
required) that will be administered by HR team to measure an applicant's suitability. The
results of the test(s) shared with the Selection Committee.
In addition to technical test, the Selection Committee may rely on a written test that may
cover areas such as.

e Subject

e English proficiency

e Cognitive

e Psychometric
as
ad
om

* ”

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

interview

Individuals to be interviewed are generally contacted at least two working days prior to the
interview and provided with the following information:

i. The name of the position they have applied
ii. The date of the interview
iii. The time and approximate length of the interview
iv. The location of the interview
v. Any documentation they are required to bring (proof of qualifications, references, etc.)
vi. The HR team representative’s name and phone number.

The HR team shall plan the interview process in consultation with the concerned Head of
Department. The planning would include:

i. Formation of interview panel/selection committee
ii. Interview scheduling (Date, Time, and Venue)
iii. Intimation to the initial selection committee
iv. Rescheduling if required
v. _ Telephonic call followed by email.
vi. Confirmation by the candidates

Interview guidelines may be seen in Annexure-l.
Selection Committee

i. For G-6 and above such as CEO, CTO, CFO, Company Secretary, CIA, CHRO, the Human
Resource Committee of the Board will interview the shortlisted candidates and
recommend suitable candidates to the Board for appointment.

ii. For G-4 to G-5: CHRO, Concerned HOD and any other C-level executive on the
recommendation of the CEO will form the selection committee.

iii. For G-1 to G-3 Positions (AMs/Deputy/Officers/Assistants etc): HR manager, Concerned
HOD will form the selection committee or may nominate a G-4 level or above resource
to be part of the committee.

iv. Depending on the level of the position, the recommended maximum size of the Selection
Committee is normally three to four personnel.

v. Interview rating forms shall be handed out to Committee, to be filled in during interviews.
Based on the ratings and credentials of an applicant, a selection will be made for
Recommended candidate and back up candidate.

vi. Regret email shall be sent to candidate who is “Not recommended” for the position. Refer
to Annexure-L.

vii. Members of the selection committee, HR team member(s), and/or CHRO who become
exposed to a potential conflict of interest as a result of a connection to a candidate must
discuss this with the other members of the selection committee and, if necessary,
withdraw from the currently underway hiring process. Refer to Annexure-H.
= PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Pre-Employment Checks

Medical Examination

Candidate finalized for employment will have to undergo a medical examination by a
doctor/medical institution specified by PSW. The cost of this examination shall be borne
by PSW for initially recruited candidates and will not be recovered from the finalized
candidate. Employment of the individual is conditional on his/her being declared
medically fit. The minimum tests to be performed at the time of recruitment would
include but not limited to Blood CP, Hepatitis, and Chest X-Ray.

During the course of his/her employment if PSW deems necessary then a medical re-
examination maybe employed for the concerned employee. These tests shall be
conducted at the expense of PSW. The ailments to be checked may include but not
limited to transmittal diseases that may make workplace unsafe for other employees.
Personnel whose nature of work requires handling of food related items will be required
to undergo a medical examination at the beginning of each calendar year or as and when
required. Furthermore, they will be provided with an opportunity to undergo hygiene
procedures training.

Employees are considered medically fit to continue working as long as their health does
not affect their job performance. Refer to Annexure-N.

Employee Selection

Once medical fitness and any other background checks have been conducted and are
deemed to be positive, selection of candidate is confirmed.

The candidate shall be informed of his/her successful selection through email and that he
needs to fill an employee application form.
Candidate is also asked to submit relevant credentials over email to the HR team.

Job Offer Letter

iv.

When a candidate for the position has been finalised, the HR team’s representative shall
request the candidate to provide Salary slips or any other authentic document to prove
his Compensation for last 3 months.

The HR team’s representative shall negotiate salary based on the Salary benchmarks
guidelines agreed by CFO and CHRO.

The HR team’s representative shall provide a verbal consent to the candidate specifying
the following terms and conditions of employment:

The title of the position and the department

The type of employment

Start date (end date if applicable)

The length of the probationary period if applicable
Supervisor's name

Salary

Location of work

If the candidate verbally gives consent to the proposed terms and conditions of
employment, the HR team representative will take formal approval through Hiring case
se PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

approval document from CHRO (For G1 to G5 grades) & CEO, HR Committee and BoD
(G-6 grade).

v. The HR team representative shall send a conditional written offer letter through email.
An expiry date for the conditional offer may be specified in the body of the letter. If the
candidate does not respond to the letter within 3 working days over email, the conditional
offer letter will no longer be valid, and the job will be offered to the Backup candidate in
the order of merit as determined by the Selection Committee.

vi. In case the Backup candidate also refuses the offer, then the HR team in consultation
with concerned HoD and Line manager shall review the available pool or re-publish the
position.

vii. Candidate shall submit all the required documents to the HR team through email along
with Medical Examination results. Conditional offer letter is valid subject to receipt of
satisfactory pre-employment checks, i.e., medical fitness, and any other background
checks. Refer to Annexure-N.

Onboarding

After acceptance of offer by the selected candidate, HR team shall update the Candidate
Profile and intimate the following regarding the expected joining date of the new employee:

LM/HOD
Departmental Chief
CHRO

HR Manager
Security Department
IT Department

After intimation of joining date HR Manager shall prepare an appointment letter using the
Candidate Profile which shall specify the following:

Joining date;

Job title;

Job description;

Working days and hours;

Monthly salary;

Entitlement to salary bonuses and benefits;

Leaves allowed;

Probationary period; and

Terms and conditions of employment and separation

i. New employee shall be given their appointment letter and employee starter kit by HR
representative on their first day at the Company. Refer to Annexure-S.

ii. New employee will fill the forms and submit to HR Representative.

iii. HR team shall introduce the employee to their line/department and facilitate the
completion of the joining report. Joining report shall be signed by the LM/HOD of the
new employee.

iv. HR representative will generate/coordinate with stakeholders for the following and share
information with the new employee.

e Employee ID;
e Employee ID card;
= PSW

vi.

vil.

viii.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

e IT asset;
e IT login;
e Bank account

Internal Recruits information will be shared with stakeholders and employee record will
be updated on date of joining in the new role.

Reference Checks are initiated on the date of Induction Binder completion and
conducted during the probation period.

All new external hires will be required to serve a probation period of minimum 90 days,
with maximum extension to up to 180 days.

Upon completion of probation, HR team will seek Line Manager's feedback to confirm
employment, extend probation or terminate employment. The Line Manager will
confirm status or reject within 5 working days from receipt of intimation.

In case an employee fails to provide the mandatory documentations within 90 days

of joining, PSW reserves the right to terminate employment.
. SW
on \ )

a, A
% se

ANNEXURE - B

Roles And Responsibilities

  
  

 

  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 

 

 

 

 

Job Role Clarification
Job Requisition
[ Determine Job Requirements
Job Advertisement
' Screening of Job Applications
Shortlisting
Interview Questions & test
Interview
Selection Committee
| Pre-Employment Checks
Salary Negotiations/Job Offer |
Onboarding |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*CEO is consulted and informed only for G-6 level positions

HR
Recruitment Stage Executive/ M HR CHRO | Line HOD | CEO*
AMHR anager

    
 

 

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

  
  

  
    
 

Responsible

| Accountable
' | Consulted
Informed
am
owe
ee
®

PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - C

Role Clarification form

The Role Clarification form is submitted as the first step of the recruitment process in case a
change is required in the job description or a new role is to be created. It is a formal account
that describes the job purpose, general tasks and responsibilities of a position. It specifies the
functionary to whom the position reports, specifications such as the qualifications or skills
needed by the job incumbent. The template shown below explains what information each
section needs to entail for RC form completion.

 

 

 

 

Department: Sub | Date:
Department:
Position: Person: Approval:
_ |
Supervisor's Supervisor: Approval:
Position: |

 

“PURPOSE (Why does the position exist, WITH what objectives and WITHIN what limits)
| Reason of existence of this position |
Impact of this position for the organization

Contribution of the position for the business

Expected outcomes

 

 

 

 

 

| SIZE
Financial | Non-Financial
N/A N/A

WORKING RELATIONSHIP -
Internal | External
Stakeholders |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMUNICATION
External:
External shared interest |

External divergent interest
Internal:

Internal shared interest
Internal divergent interest

 

 

 

 

 

 

' AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY | WEIGHTAGE | PERFORMANCE
MEASUREMENT
STANDARDS
Define role, not incumbent Percentage of — time | KPls (Qualitative and
characteristics consumed by that area of | Quantitative) |

 

Permanent roles and responsibilities responsibility

No ad-hoc assignment

 

 

 

 
“ae PS RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

 

MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
Education & | As per requirement and framework

 

 

 

 

 

 

Relevant Within industry experience

| Experience Relevant industry
Business Business acumen
Understanding — Basic/ Intermediate/ Advanced
Knowledge | Transferable and non-transferable skills.
and Skills | Breadth of knowledge
Knowledge — | Skills & Competencies —_
Limited job |
knowledge Individual contributor/ | Must-haves/ Nice-to-haves
Basic job knowledge | Team lead/ Manages | Competence architecture
Broad job knowledge | team Functional Competencies
Expert job knowledge | Job family Competencies
Professional standard Role competencies as per framework
Functional specialist Behavioral

 

 

RC Approval Checklist
The HR team ensures compliance with the following factors before approving the RC:

1 Information completion

| Are all the fields complete and self-explanatory? |

'2 | Simple & self-explanatory |
Are there any abbreviations or any ambiguous terminologies?

| 3 Job Purpose
Does the Job Purpose explain the reason of existence of the position, and mention
| the ultimate objective it would achieve? |
| 4 | Job Description . |
o Are the job responsibilities clear? Does each responsibility signify exactly
what the incumbent would be doing in each area?
o Are the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) of each responsibility clear and
quantifiable?
| | o Do the weightages total 100%? | |
5 | Job Specification
o Is the educational requirement clear & specific in terms of the minimum &
preferred requirement?
o Is the required experience clear and specific?
o Are the knowledge areas, and skills mentioned clearly?
| o Are the technical competencies stated and well-definea?
6 | Structural implications |
o Is the department structure included?
o Does the position make sense in the department structure?

 

 
“ PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - D

Job Requisition Form

Doc. No.: _
HRD/Form-Hiring

HIRING REQUISITION FORM

Position Title: Request date:

Department: [] New position [| Internal transfer
Date position needed: [ ] Replacement (Employee code):

Position supervisor name: Position's supervisor title:

Total no. of positions required: Budgeted/Approved Yes [| No[ |

Employment conditions

Select one: [| Permanent [ Temporary [_|nternship
[ Islamabad [| Karachi

Required education: Required experience:

Required Skillset:

 

RECRUITMENT APPROVALS ;
Department Head (Name) Signatures & Date

Chief Human Resource Officer (Name) Signatures & Date
PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Job Requisition Checklist

C1 Requested By

C1 Department/ Sub-Department
C1 New Position/ Replacement

OC Total Number of Position

LJ Location

C1] Grade
‘1 Required Education

O Required Skill Set

C1 Approval of CHRO

* Job Requisition is being automated on PSW Connect

O Position Title

C1 Date Position Needed
OX Position Supervisor

C1 Employment Conditions
1 Salary Range

1 Main Responsibilities

C1 Required Experience

O Budgeted/Non-Budgeted

 
“- PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - E

Job Description

Position Title:

Location:

 

 

Introduction:

Pakistan Single Window (PSW) primarily focuses on integrating and strengthening trade related
government-to-government (G2G) and business-to-government (B2G) interactions, but at the
same time it also incorporates logistics management system. The PSW is a collaborative effort
led by Pakistan Customs but involving multiple public and private sector stakeholders including
regulatory authorities, traders, freight forwarders, banks, terminal operators, and transporters
etc.

Duties & Responsibilities:
PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - F
Job Advertisement Format

Job Post Sharing - Linkedin

 PSW

PoE

et eae cae BYTE
aa

Pe eR heM anlar dee est Yate Xe

APPLY NOW

wet

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW (PSW)
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES

The Pakistan Single Window (PSW) is a public sector company incorporated under Section 42 of the Companies
Act, 2017 with the primary object of acting as the operating entity of Pakistan Customs, Federal Board of
Revenue, for the development and operation of the Pakistan Single Window (PSW) system to facilitate imports,
exports, and transit trade. The Company is headquartered at Islamabad with its regional office at Karachi.

PSW is looking for energetic & motivated professionals for the following vacant positions.

Position Title Location

 

 

 

Note:

e Interested candidates can apply online and view a detailed job description along with the qualifications and experience
requited for the positions mentioned above by visiting the official website of PSW; www.psw.gov.pk or by sending
their updated resume at careers@psw.gov.pk by mentioning the position title in the subject line of the email.

« Application Deadline: 15 Days after the date of advertisement .

* We ate an equal-opportunity employer, Females are encouraged to apply.

¢ Job Type: Contract — 3 Years, further extendable based on satisfactory performance

 

Job Post Sharing - University Placement Offices
a"s
“oe PS W RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

In case of entry level position, the below email is sent to various University Placement
Offices.

Dear
Pakistan Single Window has an opening of to be based in

. The position is open on LinkedIn. The page link is given below. Kindly
share it with your alumni. (Insert LinkedIn job post web link)

 

 

Thanking you in anticipation!

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW
<- PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - G

Interview Scheduling

Interview Invite Email (In-person interview):

Candidate Journey

Dear .

Thank you for showing interest in the position of “Position Title” at Pakistan Single Window.
We are pleased to invite you for an interview on Date (Day) at Time.

Please visit our website:

Website: PSW - Pakistan Single Window

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/pakistan-single-window
Address:

Pin Location:

Looking forward to seeing you!

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW
~ PSW
ao

o,°%
* =

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Interview Invite Email (Online interview):
Candidate Journey

As discussed, your interview has been scheduled for Day/Date/Year, at Time.

Please be reminded to strictly observe the following during the interview:

1. Be punctual and log in 5 minutes earlier than the schedule to avoid inconvenience.
Please be in the lobby 5 minutes before the scheduled time. You will be admitted, and
we will begin at sharp Time.

2. Make sure to use a PC/laptop as the main mode of communication
(Tablets/Smartphones are NOT recommended).

3. Please note that you will have to keep your camera on throughout the session, so
kindly ensure that you have a working web camera. When joining, please give access
to the browser to use web camera.

4. The said interview will be conducted via Microsoft Teams Link. You may or may not
download the Microsoft Team's application. You may or may not create an account as
well. It's absolutely fine. You can join as a guest, as long as you're using a PC/laptop.
So, we highly recommend using a PC/Laptop to prevent any sort of delays.

5. Please explore the Microsoft TEAMS application on your desktop/laptop/browser
to ensure it's working properly before the interview. Kindly ensure you can access
TEAMS's chat box/conversations feature before appearing for the interview. If you
cannot see it or access it through your app/browser, then your
Windows/MacOS/browser needs updating.

6. Use headphones/earphones throughout the interview to avoid unnecessary
echoes/noises which could interrupt the interview.

7. Be in a quiet environment.

8. Please be in presentable manner.

Good luck!

Microsoft Meeting Link

Thanks & Best Regards
“ PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Interview Schedule - Telephonic Call

The following are the scripts for the call for interviews made to the candidates.

Hello,

May | talk to (Insert Name), | am calling from PSW HR. How are you? We received
your resume for the position of (Insert Position). Could you be available for an
interview on (Insert Schedule)? Okay, | will be sending you an interview schedule
email. Please do confirm your availability in your reply.

Thank you!

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PCW

Interview Schedule - Telephonic Call (Exploratory Interview)

Hello,

May I talk to (Insert Name), | am calling from PSW HR. How are you? (Insert Name), we |
would like to schedule an exploratory interview with you. Could you be available for an
interview on (Insert Schedule)? Okay, | will be sending you the interview schedule email.
Please do confirm your availability in your reply.

Thank you!

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - H

Selection Committee Email

Subject: Selection Committee - Position Title
Dear HoD,

As discussed, interviews have been aligned as per your availability for the position of “Position Title”
HR Department has shortlisted the below-mentioned “Number of Candidates” candidates as per the
criteria defined in Job Description. To form the Selection Committee for the interview, please
nominate the committee member to conduct the interviews by day end in given below table.

@CHRO you are also requested to please nominate HR Rep. for the interview.

Department Rep

ar Candidate Name Mode of Interview

Your earlier response in this regard will be highly appreciated.

  
  

  
 
   
 

  

Selection Committee

 
   

   

Interview Date & Time

   

      

Regards,
Human Resources Department
, PSW

— ——— or
= PSW

iii.

Vi.

vil.

viii.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - |

Interview Guidelines

The HR team representative shall ensure that the interview room is ready and available
as are any necessary documents for the candidate and members of the Selection
Committee. (Application Forms, CV, transcripts, etc)

A senior Human Resource representative shall review the interview process with the
Selection Committee prior to the start of the interview and remind members to:

¢ Ask candidates questions that are a combination of both technical and managerial,
keeping in mind the general scope of the position and responsibilities.
e Avoid rating candidate responses until the end of the interview.

The HR team representative shall establish rapport with the candidate by greeting them
and introducing him/her to the Selection Committee members.
Prior to starting the interview, the HR Representative shall inform the candidate that.

e The selection panel shall ask all candidates relevant questions in relation to the
position and job description.

¢ Questions can be different based on applicants past work experience, but difficulty
level of questions will be similar for all candidates.

e They can ask for clarification on any of the questions.

e They can return to any question to add or clarify additional information but being
to the point will be appreciated.

e Selection Committee members will be recording their responses for evaluation
purposes.

e There will be time at the end of the interview for questions from the candidate; and

e The candidate will be given a specific amount of time to complete a written test (if
applicable).

Selection Committee members shall ask the candidate questions providing sufficient time
for each response.

Selection Committee members may probe for additional information or may be required
to rephrase a question if the candidate does not provide sufficient detail or
misunderstands the question. Questions may be re-worded as long as the intended
meaning remains the same.

The HR team representative shall conclude the interview by:

e Giving the candidate an opportunity to ask questions about the Job, work
environment, etc.

e Guide the candidate about the way forward and sharing approximate time of
finalizing their decision. .

e The expected salary; and

e Thanking the candidate for coming to the interview.

After administering the interview and test, the Selection Committee shall meet to
evaluate and reach consensus on the candidate’s score(s).
e
ae
75%
*

PSW

ix.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

The HR team representative shall record the results of each interview and test on the
appropriate testing document with signatures of the Selection Committee members and
maintain that as part of its record.
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - J

Pre-Employment Form

 

i, : , : ” & go

Los 28 rmBaentoen ise > aa
iat) a : 2 ere j Le 7
1 as \ % yg & < aa

  

 
  
  

    
  

ase

Be EC aL IL ee
Organization Name Designatio

 

orereer ae

 

| MM/Y MM/Y

| ——————

Position/Designation Applied For:

 

 

Wee Sn } ras: a 2 . aan a
L From To Gross Salary Benefits

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Personal Information

 

Full Name:

 

Father/Husband Name:

 

Date of Birth:

 

 

Gender:oMale oFemale = | _ fo |
Date Month Year
Marital Status: a Single o Married -
Spouse Occupation: | Children (if any): ]

 

 

Permanent Address:

 

 

Tel # (Res): | Mob #: | CNIC#:

 

   

   

Institution Grade/GPA

 

 

 

Disclaimer:

0 | confirm that information provided by me is true and correct.
| confirm that | have never been convicted to any criminal offense.

 

 

 

 

o | understand that any incorrect or false information furnished by me will result into termination from the employment.

D | confirm that none of my blood relatives is being employed by PSW.
Signature:
Date:
/ PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - K

Interview Evaluation Form

 

Name Of Candidate | Date of Interview

Position Interviewed for Department

 

 

 

; . Points
| Candidate Competencies Points Allocated

 

 

1. Direct Impact Appearance, Personality and Communication Skills:
Consider liking for and ability to get along with people, ability to
maintain pleasant inter-relationships with supervisors, peers and 20
subordinates; ability to communicate ideas and thoughts in a clear,

| concise and organized manner.
2. Work Experience & Technical Competence: Consider similar job
duties, similar working environment, same degree of supervisory and 20
management responsibility, knowledge, understanding and technical
expertise of candidate as per the requirement of the position.
| 3. Education, training & professional qualification: Consider formal ;
education, major fields of study, specialized training received for the 20
relevant position, results/grades achieved. -

| 4. Leadership potential & Analytical Reasoning Ability: Consider
previous supervisor/leadership experience, degree of assertiveness, 20
confidence level, acceptance of authority and responsibility, mental
alertness, keenness of mind, problems solving ability.

5. Attitude, Stability and Maturity: Consider friction with former
supervisors, peer relationships, reason for leaving jobs, frequency of 20

| job changes, sense of responsibility, attitude towards work and
towards family. il

| Total Points 100
[a

Additional Comments:

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
Current Salary | Expected

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notice
| Salary | Period
Recommendation: LJ Hire | Q) Shortlist Q) Do not Hire
7 INTERVIEWER

Signature Designation

 

 

 
eo» e

PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - L

Declined - Not Shortlisted: Internal (Pre-Interview)

The HR team sends the following email to the candidates who are not shortlisted.

Dear _ 7
This is with reference to yout job application for the position of Job Title - Job Function. This is to inform you ;

that unfortunately it would not be possible for us to consider your application for the said position at this time.
The shortlisting of applications is done with consideration to following points:

1. Relevant Education

' 2. Total years, and relevance of experience

3. Required skill set
4. Fulfilment of IJP guidelines

We would encourage you to keep applying for relevant IJPs and look forward to helping you achieve your career
goals.

Good Luck!

Regards,
Human Resources Department

Declined - Not Shortlisted: Internal (Post Interview)

Once the interviews have been conducted, the dropped applicants need to be sent the
following:

Subject: Thank you for applying at PSW

Dear ;

 

Thank you for appearing in the interview for the position of Job Title - Job Function.

We have completed our screening process for this role, and regret to inform you that you have not been selected
for the next stage.

* Thank you for applying for this position. We encoutage you to continue.applying for future employment

opportunities with us that promise a better fit between yout application and out requirements.
We wish you best of luck with your career pursuits.
Regards,

Human Resources Department
PSW
> PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Declined - Not Shortlisted: (External Pre-Interview)

Once the initial screening has been done, the HR team needs to send the following email to
the applicants who were not shortlisted:

Subject: Thank you for applying at PSW

Dear __ >

Thank you for showing interest in exploring PSW as a place to work. Your application has been reviewed for
the position of Job Title - Job Function.

We have completed our screening process for this role, and regret to inform you that you have not been selected
for the next stage. Thank you for applying at PSW. We encourage you to apply for future employment
opportunities with us that promise a better fit between your application and our tequirements.

: We wish you best of luck with your career pursuits.

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW

Declined - Not Shortlisted: (External Post Interview)

Once the interviews have been conducted, the dropped applicants need to be sent the
following email.

| Subject: Thank you for applying at PSW

Dear ;

Thank you for appearing in the interview for the position of Job Title - Job Function.

i
| We have completed our screening process for this role, and regret to inform you that you have not been selected
for the next stage.

Thank you for applying at PSW. We encourage you to continue applying for future employment opportunities
with us that promise a better fit between your application and our requirements.

We wish you best of luck with your career pursuits.
Regards,

; Human Resources Department
PSW
=> PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

1JS-Informing candidate about selection
SUBJECT: IJS
Dear (Insert Narne),

On the directives of management, you have been selected through IjP as (Insert Position) in (Insert
Departmend based at (Insert Location) w.e.f (Insert Date).

You will be reporting to (Manager/Supervisor’s Name) in yout new role.
(For those who ate being promoted to a new grade):

You will be placed in Grade (Category). Your Monthly gross salary will be Rs. --/=. You ate also entitled
for fuel -- Liters/Month (If applicable)

The rest of the terms and conditions of your employment will remain the same.
Regards,

Human Resources Department
PSW

 

1JS-Informing line about selection

SUBJECT: js

Dear <Line Manager name>,

We hope you are in the best of health. This is to notify that Mr. <Employee name> was interviewed
for the position of <Position name> announced via US. Mr. <Employee name> was recommended by
the panel and being considered for the new role. Kindly note that his last working day in the current
role shall be <Date> which will give the department 10 working days to conclude handing over / taking
over proceedings.

Your cooperation is highly valued in maintaining the internal harmony of the family by thinking about
the growth and development of the members.

Looking forward to your usual support.

Regards,

Human Resources Department
= PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - M

Hiring Approval Form

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dates _o
Name: Department:
Functional Title: Grade
Replacement of: - Grade: -
Designation: - | Total Salary: -
Source of Resume: |
Profile
Total Experience: | company - Relevant |
[ xperience: | | Experience:
. wee ge Professional .
Academic Qualification: | Qualification: - | Ag: |

 

 

—_—_—_—_:.'’?P____.000.0.0xx>,._c._—_c.,_cC.,,>———

Previous Employment Details

 

 

Name of Company: Last Designation: |
| . Years In Last | Currently
| Type of Employment: | Company: | | Employed:

 

Details of Existing/Last Drawn Compensation/Liabilities

 

Particulars Amounts
Gross Salary

Particulars Amounts
Basic Salary
House Rent Allowance

 

 

Total Gross |

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chief Human Resource Officer

*Hiring approval form is being automated on PSW Connect
a PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - N

Conditional Offer Letter

Subject. CONDITIONAL OFFER LETTER

Dear 5

Further to your job application and subsequent interviews, I am pleased to offer you the position of “Position Title” with
Pakistan Single Window (PSW). Terms and conditions of your conditional employment are as under:

—

Gross Salary: Rs. /- per month, Grade (G-)

Job Type: Contract — 3 Years (extendable based on performance and with mutual consent)
Job Location:

Probation Period: 3 months

Provident Fund: 8.33% of basic salary after confirmation

Health & Life Insurance: As per company policy

Leaves: 20 Annual, 10 Casual, 10 Sick

Conveyance Allowance: Rs. /- per month

ec oP NDR HN FY

Mobile Allowance: Rs. /- per month

a
S

Internet Allowance: Rs. /- per month

po
e

. Festive Allowance: As per company policy

Your conditional employment offer is subject to receipt of satisfactory medical and reference checks. If the above terms
- of conditional employment are acceptable to you, please send your acceptance in response to this email with your joining

date by Date/Day/Year along with following requirements:

Reference Check:
Please submit details of at least 2 references from HR Department of your current and previous employers or University

(in case of fresh employees) in the following format:

Name:
Designation:
Landline Number:
Official Email:

Medical Check & Fitness:

Medical Fitness certificate by a registered medical practitioner on letter head with date, stamp, signature, and full name.
Following tests to be performed from AGA Khan (AKU Lab) in case of Karachi or from Excel Labs/IDC in case of
Islamabad. Blood CP, Hepatitis B&C and Chest X-Ray

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW
= PSW

g

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - O

Joining Documents

Subject: Joining at Pakistan Single Window

Dear 5

Upon your joining on Day/Date/Year, you are required to submit the employee information along with the
mandatory documents mentioned below.

* CNIC (2 Copies)

* Passport Size Pictures with blue background (2 pics)

* Copy of Educational Documents (Last degtee to be attested by HEC/relevant authority)
* Copy of Experience Letters

* Original Medical Reports along with original bills receipts

* Covid Vaccination Certificate

* Active Bank Account Details (Bank Name, Account title, IBAN)

Note: Please share the mentioned/ attached documents in soft copy by sending the same to hr@psw.gov.pk
before your date of Joining.

Please note details of our office for your necessary reference.

Address: _

Pin Location:

 

In case you have any concerns, please feel free to contact me. Looking forward to welcoming you!

Regards,

Human Resources Department

: PSW
“- PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

*
*

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW Attach 2 recent

passport sized
photograph here

with blue
background

 

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION FORM
(PLEASE USE CAPITAL LETTERS FOR USING THIS FORM)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| PERSONAL INFORMATION |
FULL NAME (AS PER CNIC)
| FATHER’S/HUSBAND NAME
DATE OF BIRTH _ PLACE OF BIRTH |
| GENDER L _MARITAL STATUS | :
NATIONALITY | PASSPORT
(MANDATORY FOR
| EXPATRIATES)
/ CNIC/NICOP ~ | VALID TILL
BLOOD GROUP _
| PERMANENT ADDRESS Tt
CURRENT ADDRESS
| LANDLINE NUMBER | _ MOBILE NUMBER
EMAIL ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS (PLEASE MENTION SPOUSE, SONS, DAUGHTERS &
PARENTS ONLY, IF ANY)

NAME RELATIONSHIP | DATEOF | OCCUPATION
BIRTH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMERGENCY CONTACT PERSONS
NAME RELATIONSHIP | ADDRESS | CONTACT

 

NO.

: | |

| | |

 

 

 
-PSW
a ®

a7 *
Cd ve

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

 

BENEFICIARIES OF INSURANCE POLICY AND OTHER TERMINAL BENEFITS

 

 

NAME RELATIONSHIP | CNIC/NICOP/PASSPORT CONTACT | % SHARE

NO NO.

 

 

 

 

| —

| |

 

EDUCATIONAL RECORD (PLEASE MENTION THE LATEST QUALIFICATION FIRST)
QUALIFICATION | FROM | TO INSTITUTION NAME _CGPA/DIVISI
ON/GRADE
|

|
| | |

 

 

|
| |

WORK EXPERIENCE (PLEASE. MENTION THE LATEST EXPERIENCE FIRST IF ANY)

 

 

 

 

L ORGANIZATION FROM To | DESIGNATION | SALARY
| | | -

| -—
| | | |

 

 

 

 

 

| hereby declare that the information given above is true to the best of my knowledge,
information and belief. | fully understand that if any of the information given by me in this form
is in any way false or incorrect, the Company shall have the right to dismiss me without notice
and without assigning any reason whatsoever.

Employee Signatures
Documents Required:

e CNIC copy x2

e Passport size picture x2

e Copy of Educational Documents

e Copy of Experience Letters (if any)

RACE RK

 
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Subject: JOINING REPORT

Sir/Madam,

Reference to the Conditional Offer Letter dated, | am herewith submitting my joining report in
the capacity of with effect from

I , confirm joining Pakistan Single Window in agreement

with the terms and conditions mentioned in my Employment Contract.

You are therefore, requested to accept my joining.

Thank you,

Employee Signature

Approved by:

HR Department
&
= PSW
we "

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

DISCLOSURE OF RELATIVES FORM

 

Employee Name:_____ = s«(@Deesignation:§

Department: Grade:

Location:

Particulars of the Employee who is a relative:

Employee No:_ Employee Name:
Designation: Grade:

Department: Relationship:
Signature: Date:

NOTE: By Signing this, | agree to the above information and take full responsibility. In case of
any false information company reserve the right to take disciplinary action.
ante
*  ¢
a

PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

General Code of Conduct

INTRODUCTION

PSW believes in creating and maintaining a positive and safe work environment. Senior
Management must be role models to other employees by demonstrating the highest standards
of integrity and professionalism as their behavior is scrutinized closely by employees and acts
as a signal of what is and is not acceptable behavior.

PSW aims to develop a code of conduct for employees which includes the organizational
culture, its vision and expectations. It serves to remind the employee of what is expected of
them and guides them on how their actions, appearance and conduct will affect the
organization and their career. The pattern of behavior of the employees, as a whole conforms
to a disciplined and dedicated work force.

SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY

This code of conduct is not exhaustive and may not anticipate every situation which may
morally, ethically, professionally, legally compromise the employee or PSW’s interests. In this
regard PSW expects its employees to use their common sense and sound judgment.

It is mandatory for all employees to read and adhere to the Code of Conduct ensuring a friendly
and cooperative work environment with highest ethical standards.

POLICY

Violation of this code will be taken seriously and may result in disciplinary action, including the
appropriate suspension, or dismissal from employment.

Any enquiries about the code or reports of possible violation/non-observance of this code will
be submitted by the Divisional Heads/HODs to the CEO and in case of any violation/non-
observance of this code by the Divisional Heads/HODs, the CEO will initiate action and in case
of CEO, the BOD will initiate action against him/her.

EXCLUSIVE SERVICE

All employees of the company are full time employees. No employee should engage in any
other active profession, trade, business activity with remuneration or otherwise, or enter into
service or to be employed by any person or firm or assist in any business owned by his/her
spouse or parents without approval of the competent authority. No employee is allowed to
engage in any kind of business full time or part time without approval and this can render him
to strict disciplinary action and liable to termination of his services with the Company.

FALSE OR MISLEADING STATEMENT

Employees of the company shall not make any false or misleading statement in relation to the
appointment or the performance of their duties in the company.

BORROWING AND LENDING

The Company takes no responsibility for borrowing and lending between employees,
banks/financial institutions and clients of the company. It would exclusively be the
responsibility of the employees to settle their private loans.
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

All employees covered by this Code are required to avoid actions that create actual or potential
conflicts of interest. Employees are required to report any conflicts of interest that arise and
are in any way connected to PSW. Employees, when performing their duties and functions are
required not to let any personal or financial interest impair his/her ability to consider and
decide any question impartially or create bias in his/her advice. It can be a direct or indirect
interest in a commercial body, personal association or relationship with those affected or an
interest with a common interest group, such as a public or private entity. No employee may
serve as a director, officer, employee, partner, consultant, agent or representative of an
organization affiliated with PSW if the potential for a conflict of interest exists and at such
occasion the person concern must disclose the existence of any such conflict of interest to
his/her head of department.

EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES

PSW shall provide equal employment opportunities to qualified individuals regardless of race,
color, ethnicity, caste, gender, origin, ancestry, religion, age, disability or marital status, in
consistent with laws of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. :

CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROTECTION OF INFORMATION

PSW has access to confidential information about its employees, board members, consultants,
and other parties that it deals with which must be adequately protected. Except in the normal
exercise of their professional duties within PSW, employees shall not at any point in time during
or after the period of their employment pass on to any party whatsoever, any information
known to them by virtue of their employment at PSW, which has not been made public by
PSW. Employees who reveal confidential information, or make use of such information for the
personal benefit or thirdparty benefit, will be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, which
may include, inter-alia termination from employment.

LOBBYING

Employees at PSW are required not to lobby against PSW’s management for their personal
interests which could potentially halt the business activities or creaté an environment which
would make it difficult for PSW to achieve its objectives.

COPYRIGHT

Any copyrighted work done by employees during the course of their official duties shall be
vested in PSW unless otherwise agreed with the Board. Employees are also required to avoid
the unauthorized use of copyright materials of others.

TRADE OR EMPLOYMENT

No employee, except with previous written agreement with PSW, engage in any sort of trade,
or undertake any employment or work, other than his/her official duties . This is to ensure that
there is no conflict of interest between PSW and other place of employment. Employees are
to fill out Conflict of Interest form at time of employment.

In case an employee does engage in any additional employment/consultancy or business with
authorization that is not in conflict with operations of the PSW, care must be taken to ensure
that this does not cause any interference with the employees work and no organizational
resources shall be used for his/her personal work.
 PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

UNAUTHORIZED COMMUNICATION

No employee shall communicate directly or indirectly any official information to any
unauthorized person whether or not such person is a PSW employee, or to the media, both
electronic and print. The official spokesperson of the organization can be nominated by the
Board for official communication.

USAGE OF PSW’S ASSETS

Employees at PSW shall exercise reasonable care in the handling of all tangible and intangible
property of the Company. This includes the ethical use of the Company's intranet/internet
facilities and other electronic devices, both hardware and _— software.
Employees are expected to exercise basic common sense attributable to a man of ordinary
prudence and personal ethics which may or may not be included in a written code of conduct.

TAKING PART IN POLITICS AND ELECTION

No employee shall take part in, subscribe in aid of, or assist in any way, any political movement
in Pakistan or relating to the affairs of Pakistan during work hours and/or using his
employment/association with the company. PSW does not allow its employees to promote or
propagate the religious or political ideology of any political/religious movement, engage in
active campaigning on behalf of any political movement or pass on any political literature
overtly or covertly during work hours or in the company premises. If an employee announces
or allows himself/herself to be publicly announced, as a candidate or prospective candidate for
election to a legislative body, he/she shall be deemed to take part in an election to such a body
and must resign from the Company to avoid any potential conflict of interest. PSW refrain its
employee to form any political group, or be involved in activities against any another employee
or employees of PSW.

DEALING WITH COLLEAGUES AND CUSTOMERS

The employee would be courteous both in his or her relations with external customers he or
she serves, as well as in his or her relations with his or her superiors, colleagues and subordinate
staff. PSW employees are expected to exercise utmost civility and respect to their colleagues.
They are to ensure that their dealings with others exemplify and actively foster an environment
of mutual trust and respect. A manner that is prejudiced, discriminatory or harassing will not
be tolerated. No employee shall indulge in provincialism, favoritism, bullying, sexual
discrimination, violence, harassment, victimization or willful abuse of office.

UNDUE-ADVANTAGE FROM POSITION

The employee should never take undue advantage of his or her position for his or her private
interest The employee should not demand or accept gifts, favors, hospitality or any other
benefit for himself or his or her family, close relatives and friends, or persons or organizations
with whom he or she has or has had business or political relations which may influence or
appear to influence the impartiality with which he or she carries out his or her duties or may
be or appear to be a reward relating to his or her duties. The employees’ conduct in his or her
official capacity or private life should not make him or her susceptible to the improper influence
of others. The employee should not offer or give any advantage in any way connected with his
or her position, unless lawfully authorized to do so. The employee should not seek to influence
for private purposes any person or body, including other employees by using his/ her official
position or by offering them personal advantages.
*
&
PSW
em.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

INTERNET & DATA USAGE

Access to the Internet by personnel that is inconsistent with business needs results in the
misuse of resources. These activities may adversely affect productivity due to time spent using
or "surfing" the Internet. Additionally, the company may face loss of reputation and possible
legal actions.

Users who choose to store or transmit personal information such as private keys, credit card
numbers or certificates or make use of Internet “wallets" do so at their own risk. The company
is not responsible for any loss of information, such as information stored in the wallet, or any
consequential loss of personal property. Misusing, disclosing data without proper
authorization, or altering customer or personnel information is strictly prohibited.
Employee are advised to exercise extreme caution and must not to indulge in use, transmission,
duplication, or voluntary receipt of material that infringes on the copyrights, trademarks, trade
secrets, or patent rights of any person or organization.

PERFORMANCE OF DUTY

Every employee shall be required to perform his/her duties efficiently, diligently, lawfully,
honestly and faithfully to the best of his/her ability and shall make his/her best efforts to
support the interest of the company. The employee has a duty to always conduct
himself/herself in a way that the confidence and trust in the integrity, impartiality and
effectiveness of the organization are preserved and enhanced. Every employee will endeavor
to complete tasks given to him/her within the time allocated with complete diligence.

DECISION MAKING

In decision-making, the employee would act lawfully and exercise his/ her discretionary powers
impartially.

PROTECTION OF ENVIRONMENT

All employees shall endeavor to make all efforts to protect the environment. The employees
will use all resources water, electricity, printing etc in such a way to not to cause environmental
damage and also not to waste the scarred resources attached thereto:

EXERCISE OF DISCRETIONARY POWERS

In the exercise of his/her discretionary powers, the employee should ensure that on one hand
the staff and on the other hand public property, facilities, services and financial resources with
which he or she is entrusted are managed and used effectively, efficiently and economically.

SUPERVISION OF STAFF

The employee who supervises or manages other employees should do so in accordance with
the policies and rules. He or she should be answerable for acts or omissions by his/her staff
which are not consistent with those policies and purposes if he/she has not taken those
reasonable steps required from a person in his/her position to prevent such acts or omissions.
He/She should take reasonable steps to prevent dishonesty by his/ her staff in relation to
his/her office.

REPORT OF BREACH OF CONDUCT

The employee should, in accordance with the law, report to the competent authorities if he or
she becomes aware of breach of this Code by other employee. The employee should report to
the Divisional/Department Head any evidence, allegation, or suspicion of unlawful or criminal
“- PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

activity coming to his or her knowledge in the course of, or arising from, his or her employment.
The competent authorities shall carry out investigation of the reported facts.

Employee Acknowledgment:

| acknowledge that | have received a copy of PSW Code of Conduct; read and understood it
completely. | agree to comply with the requirements outlined in the code. | understand that a
violation of this code may result in disciplinary action.

Employee Name:
Designation :_
<-> PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

RULE 5 (5) (b) (v) OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR COMPANIES (CORPORATE GOVERNANCE)
RULES 2013

DECLARATION BY THE DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVES AND OFFICERS OF PSW

DECLARATION BY DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVES AND OFFICERS THAT THEY SHALL NOT
OFFER OR ACCEPT ANY PAYMENT, BRIBE, FAVOR OR INDUCEMENT WHICH MAY
INFLUENCE THEIR DECISION MAKING AND ACTIONS.

| ----- -- enon n-ne oe --------------- ++ being member Board of Director, Executive/Officer of
PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW, do hereby declare that | shall not offer or accept any payment,
bribe, favor or inducement which might influence, or appear to influence, my decisions and
actions for and on behalf of PSW and shall abide by all the applicable laws and Anti-Corruption,
Fraud and Bribery Policy of PSW. | undertake that my income tax returns are duly submitted
(for those who have taxable income) and will provide the same if required for any
inquiry/investigation.

Furthermore, | shall support and encourage to take every step against corruption, Fraud and

Bribery.

Name:

Signature:

Date:
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - P
Onboarding Process

e Employee details are entered in to PSW connect and shared with all stakeholders.
e On the day of joining, the new joiner orientation activity will take place

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

         

   
 

 

ORIENTATION ACTIVITY TIME ORGANIZER | COMPLETE COMMENTS
Meet with HR Team -
Documentation |
Bio Matric Enrollment | 9:00 am HR 0
Enrollment with Health & Life
Insurance | |
Tour facility/office 70:00 HR O
}
Management & Team Meetup 70:80 HR O
HR Orientation ooo HR O HR Team
Setup computer and systems T i
Receive computer equipment | 11:30 IT/HR 0
Grant network access | pm
Activate software licenses
One-on-one meeting with manager/ Team 12:00
(Own Department Orientation m Manager CO
Address questions / concerns P
Lunch (.1:00 pm HR/ Admin | O
One-on-one meeting with manager
Departmental Orientation | 3:00 pm Manager O
Work allocation/ distribution |
Department Wise Orientation Agenda
ORIENTATION ACTIVITY TIME ORGANIZER | COMPLETE COMMENTS

 

 

 

  
 
  

  
 

Departmental Orientation

H
Corporate Affairs am poe [oo Omar Farood
Departmental Orientation 10:30 Syed Muzaffar Alli
= ; HR
Finance ; am Shah
Departmental Orientation :
ia " . 10:45 HR Shahan Suhail
Admin am
Departmental Orientation :

Procurement ~
HR O Ramin Malik

   
   
  
   
  

    
  

     
  

Departmental Orientation
- Marketing & Communication

 

  
 

 
+ PSW
o%¢
* 2 ‘ ae

     
 

    
  

  

    
  
 
   
  
  

 

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY
Departmental Orientation
. Saqib Ghafoor
Internal Audit 4

HR - 0
am

Departmental Orientation Naveed Abbas

dae 2:00 HR

Domain Management 200m | ne | oo | Nagas
Departmental Orientation

3:00 HR h Sb
Operations & Strategy i. 00mm) wR | 0 | Sheers

Departmental Orientation HR will do it in the
an presentation one
slide will be
provided by IT

side.

11:40

      

        
     
 

Information Technology

 
 
  
a
a @

PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - Q

Welcome - Email

After the onboarding session, the relevant HR representative has to send the following
welcome email.

Dear (Insert Name),

| hope you are doing well. Congratulations on your selection as (Insert Position), in
our (Insert Department). Welcome aboard to the PSW. We wish you success & hope that
you will contribute superlatively towards the growth of our organization.

You are requested to come over to PSW (Address) on (Insert Date) at (Insert Time) for the
submission of documents on (Insert Date) at (Insert Time) to understand the joining
formalities.

Regards,
Human Resources Department
PSW
< PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - R
New Joiner First Impression Notification

Onboarding Feedback Email entailing the survey link on PSW’s First impression Program (FIP)
needs to be sent by the HR rep. to the new joiner upon completion of one month of service to
assess his/her on-boarding experience.

Dear (Insert Name),

I (We) hope you are doing well.

I (We) am contacting you to collect your feedback regarding the recent joining experience at PSW. We
believe that employee feedback can be of paramount importance in helping us improve our processes.
It will be great if we can have your feedback to assess our recent onboarding program designed to help
employees settle in their new job quickly & effectively.

Please click here and give us your candid feedback latest by (Insert Date).
Regards,

Human Resources Department
PSW
RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

ANNEXURE - S
Appointment Letter

Employment Appointment Letter

[*Letterhead of Company*]

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE:

Name
CNIC:
Address

Letter of Appointment

With reference to your interview with us, thus, the Company is pleased to offer you the position of
[Designation] with the Company on the terms and conditions mentioned hereinaftet:

 

 

 

 

 

Grade: | Designation:
Working Hours | 9:00AM-5:00PM (Mon-Fri) | Location:
Department: | | Sub-
| P , | Department
| ~ . ’
Employment | Permanent Duration: Upon attaining the age of 60
Type: years
| Date of Birth: | | w.e.f. :

 

You will be given the following compensation per month:

Gross Salary Breakdown

- Basic Salary: Rs. [*] (Rupees *)

- Accommodation (HRA): Rs. [*]
(Rupees *)

Total Monthly Gross Salary [*] (Rupees *)
(Rs.):

1. You will be required to undergo a probationary period of three (3) months from the date of your joining.
The probationary period may be extended to another three (3) months at the sole discretion of the
Management.

2. After the successful completion of the period of probation, you will be taken on the permanent strength of
the Company. Management reserves the right to terminate you at any time during probation without

assigning any reason.

|
|
*
“> PSW
*

10.
11.
12.
13.

14.

16.

17.

18.
19.

20.

21.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

Your salary and allowances shall be in accordance with the policies approved by Board of Directors/CEO
of the Company. The Company reserves the right to modify/alter/amend such policies and limits of
allowances and benefits from time to time as and when required.
Various deductions made from salary include Income tax, 8.33% of basic salary for Provident Fund
Contribution, Loan installment (if any), EOBI (as per the rate determined by Govt. of Pakistan), Income
tax, and any other cost-sharing expenses as may be prescribed by the Company from time to time applicable
to your level.
You shall be entitled to Life Insurance and Health Insurance as per the Company’s policy.
You shall be entitled to following leaves as per company leave policy:

Annual Leave: 20 working days (after completion of probation period)

Casual Leave: 10 working days
Sick Leave: 10 working days

Payment against any entitlement shall be subject to provisions as stipulated in the relevant applicable HR
Policies and any amendments being made from time to time.

Your remuneration shall be reviewed annually and may be revised at the discretion of the management
based on your performance.

During your service, you will be governed by the terms of this Letter of Appointment and the relevant
Company Rules and Regulations contained in the applicable HR Policies, as and when may be applicable
from time to time.

You may be transferred ot assigned to any other department and/or location and/or associated
otganization anywhere in Pakistan at the sole discretion of the Management in the interests of the Company
ot cateer growth as per Company policy with mutual consent.

You will have the necessary authority to perform your duties. This authority will be subject to any rules,
tegulations, stipulations, and conditions as may be laid from time to time by the Directors ot Management
of the Company.

You will discharge all such duties, responsibilities, and authorities as assigned to you, efficiently and
diligently to the satisfaction of the Management and you will not act in any manner contrary to the interests
of the Company.

During your employment or after its termination, you will not disclose any information relating to the
Company or its customers and will not divulge any of the Company's affairs or trade secrets that you may
obtain while in the service of the Company unless compelled to do so by a Court of Law.

The negotiated salary, allowances, benefits, etc. shall remain confidential and you will not divulge any related
information to anybody in any case unless compelled to do so by a Court of Law.

- You will be bound to make good any loss or damage to Company property caused by negligence,

inadvertence, fraud, carelessness, or act of omission, on your part. The termination of your services may
not exonerate you from lability to make good this loss or damage.

You shall not accept any other employment, whether part-time or otherwise with any other person nor
engage in any business activity directly or indirectly during your setvice with the Company.

You will be a full-time employee of the Company, and shall not accept any other employment, whether
part-time or otherwise with any other person or company who is directly or indirectly doing business or in
contract with PSW.

Your services will be subject to termination by one month's written notice on either side ot pay in lieu
thereof.

In case of resignation or termination, you will not leave the Company until formal acceptance of resignation
and/or clearance is issued by the Company.

In case of breach of any of the terms of this Letter of Appointment and Company rules and regulations, or
any fraudulent activity which may constitute misconduct on yout part, your services ate liable to immediate
termination, and you will not be entitled to any compensation as a tesult thereof. In such a case, suitable
necessary action may further be initiated against you as per Law and Company’s rules and regulations.
You will be entitled to participate in a contributory provident fund scheme, in accordance with the
rules / framework devised by the PSW, after the completion of a successful probationary period. If you opt
to join the scheme, your contribution will be 8.33% of your monthly basic salary. If you opt not to join the
scheme, you shall not be entitled to any benefits under the said scheme and/or rules /framework.
= PSW
22.

23.
24.

25.

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

You shall be responsible for the payment of Income Tax payable as per the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001,
and its subsequent revisions and undertake to bear all the responsibilities in the matter of payment of
Personal Income Tax.

Your appointment is subject to your being found and remaining medically fit at the time of, and during,
your employment with the Company.

You will be retired from the service of the Company upon attaining the age of 60 Years. You may be retired
earlier on the grounds of ill health, or physical or mental incapacity.

If you accept the above terms and conditions, please sign at the appropriate place on the copy of this letter
and return it to the HR representative. If you fail to report for duty at the stipulated place and date this
appointment shall stand terminated automatically

For and on behalf of
Pakistan Single Window (PSW)

SYED SOHAIB HASSAN
CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER

ACCEPTANCE

L , do hereby declare that I have carefully read and understood and
agree with the terms and conditions of the employment as set out in my Letter of Appointment dated
—___________, of which this is a true copy. By my signature hereunder, I confirm that I fully accept
the said terms and conditions of my appointment.

Dated:

 

SIGNATURE

TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT APPOINTMENT LETTER

CONFIDENTIAL

Name
*

= PSW
*, *

* ot

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

CNIC:
Address:

Letter of Appointment

With reference to your interview with us, we are pleased to offer you temporary appointment
with the Pakistan Single Window Company on the following terms and conditions:

 

 

 

 

 

| Designation: Department:
Working Hours | 9:00AM- 5:00PM (Mon-Fri) | Location: | Karachi/ Islamabad, Pakistan
Duration: | ennarment Contractual
ype.

 

 

You will be given the following compensation per month:

YOUR MONTHLY LUMP SUM GROSS SALARY WILL BE RS.: Rs. /-

You will be governed by the following terms and conditions:

1. The negotiated salary shall remain confidential, and you will not divulge any related information
to anybody in any case unless compelled to do so by a Court of Law.

“2. You shall be entitled to Life Insurance as per the company policy.

3. Payment against any entitlement shall be subject to provisions as stipulated in the relevant HR
Policy Manual and any amendments being made from time to time.

4. During your service, you will be governed by the terms of this Letter of Appointment and the
relevant Company Rules and Regulations contained in the HR Management Manual, as may be
applicable from time to time.

5. You may be transferred or assigned tasks anywhere in Pakistan at the sole discretion of the
Management in the interest of the Company.

6. You will have authority necessary to perform your duties. This authority will be subject to any
rules, regulations, stipulation, and conditions as may be laid from time to time by the Directors
or Management of the Company.

7. During your employment or after its termination you will not disclose any information relating
, to the Company or its customers and will not divulge any of Company's affairs or trade secrets
that you may obtain while in the service of the Company, unless compelled to do so by a Court

of Law.

8. You will be bound to make good any loss or damage to Company property caused by
negligence, inadvertence, fraud, carelessness, or act of omission, on your part. The termination
of your services may not exonerate you from liability to make good this loss or damage.

9. Your services will be subject to termination by one week’s written notice on either side or pay
in lieu thereof.

10. In case of resignation or termination, you will not leave the Company until formal acceptance
of resignation and / or clearance is issued by the Company.
= PSW

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION POLICY

11. In case of breach of any of the terms of this Letter of Appointment and Company rules and
regulations, or any fraudulent activity which may constitute a misconduct on your part, your
services are liable to immediate termination, and you will not be entitled to any compensation
as a result thereof. In such a case, suitable necessary action may further be initiated against
you as per Law and Company rules and regulations.

12. You shall be responsible for the payment of Income Tax payable as per the Income Tax
Ordinance, 2001 and its subsequent revisions and undertake to bear all the responsibilities in
the matter of payment of personal Income Tax.

13. Your job description along with key responsibilities and deliverables are attached as Annex-A
with this contract.

14. You will discharge all such duties, responsibilities and authorities as assigned to you in line with
the job description as per (Annex-A), efficiently and diligently to the satisfaction of the
Management and you will not act in any manner contrary to the interest of the Company.

If you accept the above terms and conditions, please sign at the appropriate place on the copy
of this letter and return it to the HR representative. If you fail to report for duty at the stipulated
place and date this appointment shall stand terminated automatically.

Yours faithfully,
For Pakistan Single Window (PSW)

SYED SOHAIB HASAN
CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICE

ACCEPTANCE

ee , do hereby declare that | have carefully read and understood and agree
with the terms and conditions of the employment as set out in my appointment letter dated
ee , of which this is a true copy. By my signature hereunder, | confirm that | fully
accept the said terms and conditions of my appointment.

Dated:

SIGNATURES
