
%PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

 

[ Note for Approval |

“Date: 16% May 2023 PSW/PMP/01 |
| To: Chief Executive Officer
| From: Chief Human Resource Officer

 

 

 

| Subject: Approval for Performance Management Policy

 

 

 

Pakistan Single Window (PSW) Company recognizes quality human resources fundamental to
its success This policy is designed to help us better manage employee performance, set clear
expectations, and promote accountability and continuous improvement. The performance
management policy will establish a formal process for setting goals, providing feedback, and
conducting performance evaluations. It will include regular check-ins between employees and
their managers to ensure that they are on track to meet their goals. Due to absence of a proper
Performance Management System, the appraisals for FY 21-22 were conducted on a 9-box grid
as an Adhoc arrangement however an external consultant was onboarded by USAID-PREIA as
Performance Management Specialist to develop a comprehensive Performance Management
Policy for PSW.

2. The policy has been formulated by engaging stakeholders and awareness sessions have
been conducted for Karachi and Islamabad based employees. It is designed to drive business
outcomes and employee development through an all-encompassing approach. It combines
WIGs (Wildly Important Goals), OKRs (Objectives and Key Results), Quarterly Reviews and
Competency Framework to provide a transparent and executable performance roadmap.
The performance cycle for PSW will be from July to June annually and the policy will be
applicable to ali permanent employees joining on or before 1* April of that Financial Year.

3. This policy has the potential to impact our company in a number of positive ways. By
promoting a culture of accountability and continuous improvement, we can foster a more
productive and engaged workforce. Furthermore, the policy will help to ensure that all
employees are working towards common goals and objectives, which will lead to greater
alignment and a stronger sense of teamwork.

4. There are many benefits to implementing a performance management policy. By setting
clear expectations and providing regular feedback, we can help employees to stay motivated
and engaged, which will ultimately lead to improved performance and higher levels of job
satisfaction. Additionally, the policy will help to identify areas where employees may need
additional training or support, which will enable us to address performance issues before
they become larger problems.

5. In view of the foregoing, a Performance Management Policy, attached herewith, is to be
presented before the Human Resource/Nomination Committee for its review and
recommendations to the Board for approval, please.

DX
as] Chief whe Officer

Chiéf Executive Officer

 

 

 
     

ompany Secretary
Disclosures:

1. Is the employee f his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the
proposed transaction or contract or arrangement: YES.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is alegal opinion required: NO.

  
info@psw.gov.pk

- PSW

ZEAE ! crates

WWw.psw.gov.pk
Ph: +92 51 9245605

CB gq

Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

Reference: Performance Management/POL/v1-22
Document Version: 1

   

Custodian Human Resource

   

 
  

Maintaining and Implementation | CHRO

Responsibility

    
 
   

  

Effective Date

  
    

July 1, 2023

  

Next Review Date After Every Two

Years

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

Prepared by Reviewed by

 

Confidential Information: The information provided in this document
is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this document
may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party without the
express written permission of PSW.

 

ad Office, NTC

 
PSW

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

1. Introduction

Performance management is a systematic process that helps organizations assess and develop
the performance of their employees. The goal of a performance management policy is to align
individual performance with the organization's goals and objectives, and to provide employees
with the support and feedback they need to improve and succeed. It entails a comparison of an
employee's knowledge, abilities, and behaviors regarding the job demands and the company's
objectives. An opportunity to examine performance, job content, loads, and volume, reflect on
past accomplishments, and set new goals is provided through performance management for
each employee and their management. Additionally, this is the time when an employee can be
provided with learning and development needs that might help them perform better.

2. Purpose / Objectives

The goal of performance management is to provide feedback to employees about their job
performance, identify areas for improvement, and align employee goals with those of the
organization. The purpose of a performance management policy is to provide a framework for
evaluating and improving the performance of employees in an organization.

The main objectives of performance management are to:

2.1. Setting clear performance expectations and goals: The policy outlines the
expectations and goals for each employee and the role they play in achieving the
organization's overall objectives.

2.2. Assess employee performance: Performance management allows organizations to
assess how well an employee is performing in their role and identify any areas for
improvement.

2.3. Provide feedback and support: Performance management provides an opportunity for
employees to receive feedback on their performance, both positive and constructive, and
to discuss areas for improvement with their manager.

2.4. Set goals and objectives: Performance management can be used to set goals and
objectives for future development and to help employees understand their role within the
organization.

2.5. Promoting accountability: The policy helps hold employees accountable for their
performance and encourages them to take ownership of their role and responsibilities.

2.6. Promote employee development: Performance management can provide employees
with opportunities to learn and grow through training, coaching, and other development
activities.

2.7. Support decision making: Performance management can be used to inform decisions
about promotions, salary increases, or other types of recognition or rewards as per PSW
policies.

Overall, the main goal of performance management is to help employees understand their
strengths and weaknesses and provide them with the support and resources they need to
succeed in their roles.

Page 2 of 21
“> PSW

3.

eens PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Scope

This policy applies to all permanent employees of the company. The policy defines the procedure
for performance management process and provides guidelines for HR managers team on how to
lead the process.

The policy aims to ensure that employees:

3.1.

3.2.

3.3.

3.4.

3.5.

6.1.
6.2.

6.3.

6.4.

Should be aware of the standards of performance that are expected of them as well as
the proper way to carry out their duties.

Recognize their accomplishments and receive feedback that tries to enhance and build
performance.

Determine the areas that need improvement and the requirements for training and
development.

Create a plan that all parties may follow to accomplish development objectives and
employee career growth.

Create a process for developing and implementing performance improvement plans,
including the roles and responsibilities of employees and managers.

Definitions

Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who will be
responsible for the management of PSW and the implementation of its policies and
procedures in financial and other matters, subject to oversight and directions of the
Board.

CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer, the Head of the Human Resource
Department.

C-suite Executive means the top tier of the company management comprising the Chief
Technology Officer, Chief Domain Officer, Chief Strategy & Operations Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Human Resource Officer, Head of
Marketing & Communication, Company Secretary, and the Chief Executive Officer.
Process Flow is a graphical representation of the sequence of activities or steps
involved in a process or workflow. It shows the flow of materials, information, or
resources through the different stages of the process, from start to finish.

Performance Management Cycle

The performance cycle for PSW will be from July to June annually.

This policy will be applicable to all permanent employees joining on or before 01° April
of that Financial Year.

If the above date (1* April) falls on weekend or gazetted holiday then the next working
day will be considered.

All eligible PSW employees will be evaluated on a Quarterly basis with the following
performance cycles:

Page 3 of 21
&PSW

SS PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

Cycle 1 Evaluation July — September
Cycle 2 Evaluation October — December
Cycle 3 Evaluation January — March
Cycle 4 Evaluation April — June

6.5. At the start of each review cycle employees along with their respective superiors/line
managers will set goals for the coming year.

6.6. At the end of each quarter the employees will discuss their progress over the last three
months with their superiors/line managers and receive feedback and ratings.

6.7. In the last quarter the employee will be rated for his overall performance and the score
will be average of the score of the four quarters.

6.8. | Feedback will be provided to the employee and if there is need of development the HR
department will be informed about it. (Refer to Annexure A, B and C for details)

7. Applicability
Applicable to all employees/departments in the organization
8. Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board.

9. Policy Statement

9.1. The Human Resource Department oversees implementing and reviewing policies
generally.

9.2. All employees must, however, abide by the policy's implementation and support it.

9.3. All employees will be made aware of this policy and their roles in its execution by the HR
department.

9.4. This policy will be put into practice by creating and maintaining processes for one-on-
one meetings and managements, using sample forms, and providing managers and staff
with instructions on the method.

10. Roles and Responsibilities
10.1. HR Department

HR department plays a critical role in ensuring that the performance management process is
fair, consistent, and aligned with the goals and objectives of the organization. Some specific
responsibilities of the HR department in the performance management process include:

10.1.1. Ensuring implementation of performance management policies and procedures

10.1.2. Guiding managers and employees on how to conduct and participate in performance
managements, including how to provide effective feedback and set goals for future
development.

Page 4 of 21
PSW

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

10.1.3. Scheduling performance management meetings, collecting and analyzing data, and
ensuring that all employees receive their performance managements ina timely manner.

10.1.4. Providing support and resources to managers and employees to help them prepare for,
and participate in the performance management process and advise them on how to
provide constructive feedback.

10.1.5. Providing input for administrative outputs including but not limited to Annual Performance
based increments and bonus, Reward & Recognition, Promotions etc.

11. Chief Human Resource Officer

The CHRO acts as a Performance Champion and his job is to ensure that the smooth flow of
the performance management process and the involvement of the top management (C-Suite)
in the process.

12. Information Flow

The information flow is described in the process flow attached (Annexure-E).

13. Performance Feedback

The performance feedback is an important aspect of the performance management, so a separate
document has been designed by HR department that describes in detail how to give constructive
feedback.

14. Compliance

The CHRO will ensure the compliance of this Policy. Intentional deviation from this policy will be
considered as unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective.

All forms specified in this Policy will be included in detailed Annexures developed by the HR
department and approved by the CEO.

15. Amendments

The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time.
Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the Board’s Human Resource
Committee (BHRC) and approved by the Board of Directors. Amendments and changes in
operational matters included in Annexures of this document will be approved by the CEO.

16. Administration
This Policy shall be administered by the Human Resource Department.

Page 5 of 21
PSW

an ee PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

Annexure A: Performance Management Framework

The Performance Management Framework is designed to drive business outcomes and
employee development through an all-encompassing approach. It combines WIGs (Wildly
Important Goals), OKRs (Objectives and Key Results), Quarterly Reviews and Competency
Framework to provide a transparent and executable performance roadmap.

WIGs concentrate on a handful of high-impact, business-aligned objectives. OKRs provide a
structured method for setting goals and tracking their progress. Quarterly Reviews on the other
hand will provide employees with timely and consistent feedback, allowing for continuous
improvement.

The Competency Framework assists employees in understanding the expected skills and
behaviours and how to enhance their performance through their development. Our framework
leads to increased productivity, increased employee engagement and satisfaction, and a culture
of continuous learning and growth.

Each individual performance review is provided with part of the percentage of the overall 100%
assessment i.e.

e WIG® = 20%

e Competencies = 20%

e Individual Goals = 60%

_Review organizational Mission and Vision and |

| Step 1: | 20% _ facilitate in the creation of WIG® and OKRs !

 

anno. | ono, Review organizational Values and map relevant.
Competencies to the values and individual job titles
| Help in creating individual Goals for each employee in line |

Step 3: €0% with the organization, functional and departmental |
| strategies |

 

Part 1: WIG®

WIG@® is a fundamental component and starting point of the performance evaluation process. The
WIG® is defined as a goal that is incredibly significant and has a substantial impact on PSW from
a top leadership perspective.

In the context of PSW, WIG® will only be assigned to C-Suite Executives for one performance

cycle or 12 months. At the end of the year, a new WIG® may be selected, or the same WIG®
may be utilized for the following year.

Page 6 of 21
<P SW

fenton PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

 

 

 

Part 2: Competencies
In PSW, each job role/job title has been linked with a Competency Framework.

@. Job Roles / Job Titles

For effective alignment of competencies, all job roles/job titles are divided into two main
categories:

Leadership Roles — An individual's ability to influence and motivate others to achieve a common
goal. It involves the ability to direct and guide people, manage change, and create an environment
that encourages collaboration and innovation. Leadership is a combination of qualities, skills, and
behaviors that enable individuals to successfully achieve goals.

Non-Leadership Roles ~ A non-Leadership Role is a job or position that does not involve taking
on managerial or executive responsibility for a team, project, or organization. It is a role in which
the individual is expected to perform tasks without any formal authority or control over the people
in the team or organization.

At the time of every new Job Title / Job Role creation, the HR team will classify the position as
Leader / Non-Leader. This classification will aid in assigning the correct set of competencies from
the list of agreed competencies managed and maintained by the HR team.

b. The Competency Framework

While goals are the ‘what’ needs to be achieved, competencies are the ‘how’ to achieve them.
The competencies list the essential behaviors expected from all colleagues. It includes how to
behave in front of stakeholders, when interacting with our colleagues and when we are
overcoming challenges. It is through the competencies that all employees will live PSW’s core
values.

c. PSW List of Core Competencies

The competencies are divided into two classifications i.e. (i) Input Focused (ii) Output Focused.

(i) input-focused competencies are purely driven by an individual's desire and interest.
(ii) Output-driven competencies are skill and ability driven concluding with some output.

Out of 16 suggested competencies, 8 output-focused competencies are mapped with PSW values
of Performance Driven and Knowledge Drive, the other 8 input-focused competencies are
mapped with the values of Drive for Excellence, Collaborative, Challenging, Inclusive, and
Integrity.

Page 7 of 21
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

 
    

| ANALYSIS/PROBLEM-

 

   

1 SOLVING | 9 | SUDGEMENT/DECISION MAKING

   

: 11 | PLANNING AND ORGANIZING

 

5 FLEXIBILITY/ADAPTABILITY | 13 RESEARCHING AND INVESTIGATING
6 INITIATIVE/INDEPENDENCE | 14 RESULTS/QUALITY ORIENTATION

 

     
   

sen Lo
7 | EFFECTIVENESS | 15 SELF-CONFIDENCE/RESILIENCE
8 TEAMWORK ~ "46 PERSONAL MOTIVATION
RESULTS/QUALITY ORIENTATION ee * INTERPERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS

RESEARCHING AND INVESTIGATING
JUDGEMENT/DECISION MAKING
ANALYSIS/PROBLEM SOLVING
PLANNING AND ORGANIZING
QUICK THINKING/LEARNING
CUSTOMER ORIENTATION
BUSINESS AWARENESS

; ‘ot ES ENCE
~ &_” INFTIATIVE/INDEPENDENCE
= a oPLEXIBILITY/ADAPTABILITY
~ _. PERSONAL MOTIVATION
, “COMMUNICATION
Ae 4g & & gitam work
x :

   
    
 
  

d. Assigning Competencies to a Role/Job Title

In the absence of Job Analysis and Job Evaluation process, competencies to the job will be
assigned based on the role/job title-related information available with the HR team.

The competency allocation will be based on the following rule:

e Total Number of Competencies: Each Role/Job Title will be assigned 5 competencies.
e Leadership Roles: Ail leadership Roles/Job Title will have 3 Input-Focused and 2 Output-
driven competencies (total 5 competencies with a distribution of 60-40%)

Page 8 of 21
%PSW

GIB RB Rie oe OB A,

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

e Non-Leadership Roles: All non-leadership Roles/Job Titles will have 2 Input-Focused and
3 Output-driven competencies (Total 5 competencies with a distribution of 40-60%)

e. Assigning Competencies to a Role/Job Title

The detailed description of each competency is mentioned in the below table for reference.

COMPETENCY TITLE

  

ANALYS!IS/PROBLEM-

COMPETENCY DESCRIPTION

 

Able to identify and separate out the key components of
problems and situations. Able to manipulate and interpret
information from a range of sources, to spot patterns and

 

 

2 | BUSINESS AWARENESS

SOLVING trends in information and to deduce cause and effect from
this. Can generate a range of creative solutions, evaluate
them and choose the most appropriate option. |
Knows what we do and how we do it. Is aware of our

competitors. Up to date with general business news.
Aware of developments in the sector. Thinks about
implications. Has worked in a commercial setting.
Understands the importance of customer satisfaction and
shareholder value.

 

3 | COMMUNICATION

Able to communicate information and ideas clearly and
articulately both in oral and written form. Uses appropriate
language, style and methods depending on audience and
the purpose of communication. Able to convey complex
information clearly. Anticipates the information that others
will need.

 

; of

4 | CUSTOMER ORIENTATION
poof

 

Identifies and prioritises customer needs and recognises
constraints. Seeks to find out more about customers and
provide a better service. Adopts professional approach to

customers. Is reliable and delivers on promises.

 

S | FLEXIBILITY/ADAPTABILITY
=

 

6 | INITIATIVE/;-NDEPENDENCE

 

 

7 INTERPERSONAL
EFFECTIVENESS
a

improving situations.

 

Has actively sought to learn new things on own initiative.
Has responded positively to change and adapted to new
situations quickly. Able to take on a diverse range of tasks

equally effectively.
Able to work things out without having to be shown too

often. Takes responsibility for own time and effectiveness.
Alert to opportunities to contribute appropriately without
being told. Able to spot and implement opportunities for

Able to influence the views and behaviour of others
through persuasion and encouragement. Manages conflict
or other sensitive issues tactfully and effectively. Able to
adapt behaviour to a wide range of people.

 

 

Page 9 of 21
SrF#
a

10

  

COMPETENCY TITLE

TEAMWORK

JUDGEMENT/DECISION
MAKING

LEADERSHIP

PLANNING AND

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

COMPETENCY DESCRIPTION

 

Actively participates in team. Encourages co-operation.
Aware of the needs of others and responds flexibly.
Shares information and supports other team members.
Can get things done through others and set realistic
objectives. Seeks opportunities to develop others.
Prioritises team goals over individual goals. .

Takes balanced view of situations incorporating different
perspectives. Seeks alternative viewpoints. Recognises
priorities, weighs up different options and evaluates risks.
Reaches logical conclusions and decides on appropriate
plan of action. Evaluates previous judgements in order to

| improve.

Able to set vison and strategy, can take risks and is
innovating. Understands and navigates the organization.
Displays ethics and integrity, drive and purpose. Values
diversity and difference.

Able to achieve results in a quality, timely, and cost-
effective way. Sees priorities, plans the efficient use of
resources, and monitors progress against objectives.

 

 

 

 

 

15

16

 

 

 

 

AM

 

SELF-
CONFIDENCE/RESILIENCE

PERSONAL MOTIVATION

 

1 ORGANIZING Anticipates crucial stages in projects. Formulates
alternative means of achieving objectives. Responds
effectively to unforeseen events. |

| Able to pick up and assimilate relevant information quickly

42 QUICK and easily. Learns new tasks rapidly. Responds swiftly

THINKING/LEARNING and appropriately. Can think on their feet in rapidly
_| changing environments. |
Has the ability to recognise information needs and identify
and utilise appropriate information sources. Persists in

13 NUS NING seeking information and adopts a variety of strategies.

Questions, checks and evaluates information and sources.
_| Pays attention to details.
Sets high but achievable standards for self and others.

44 RESULTS/QUALITY Seeks opportunities to improve process and outcomes.

ORIENTATION Constantly reviews performance to identify areas to

| develop.

Measured confidence to take on demanding work or put
forward views when they may be challenged. Stays calm
in a crisis. Handles competing demands. Overcomes
setbacks. Welcomes and learns from criticism. |
Sets personal goals which are challenging but achievable.
Pursues these with energy, persistence and determination.
Enthusiastic and committed to improving personal

| performance levels.

Page 10 of 21

 

 

 
~PSW

Sea eiae PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

 

Part 3: Individual Objectives

The individual Objectives/Goals will be defined at the start of the review period. As a best practice,
both line manager and employee need to agree on the Objectives/Goals and their relevant
measures such as Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in line with the Key Result Areas of the job
role. The goals/objectives should be created keeping in mind the SMART criteria i.e.,
Objectives/Goals are Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic, and Time bounded.

Page 11 of 21
<< PSW
oP PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

Annexure B: Performance Management Forms

The performance management form consists of 3 sections. This form will be owned and managed
by the HR team as they are the owners of the Performance Management Process, any
amendment (s) or changes to the form must be approved by the CEO on recommendation of
CHRO.

a. PA Form — General Information

The HR team will fill in the initial information for each employee before sending the form to the
respective Line Manager.

b. Forms Structure

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW HR-PAF-001-CS
’
“re PSW PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FORM

{c-surre)

HOPE PERE LIVINLS DADS YE DARA SOLE EE

  

 

7 PAXISTAM SINGLE WINDOW MRDAP-TEE-CS
ye PSW PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FORM
(C-SUITED
bear ORMANEE LvGLUATION PERIOD einen set -nMabbeTTy

maa) 7

  

Page 12 of 21
PSW

“oO PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

 

| BY-t-Xer gt ey ated)

 

ie The WIG® will be decided by the CEO and managed by CHRO.
e The WIG will be updated for every year.

1. WiGe e Employees are NOT allowed to have more than two goals in this
section on their own, they can add individual goals in the later |
section of this form. |

‘Measures (what | will do to achieve them) are to be filled in by the |

2. | Measures
employee if required.

| Weightage for this section is fixed at 20%, therefore each goal will have

|
|
|
|
2
|
|
| 3. Weightage

 

 

la weightage of 10%.
| Measure | ; ; ; |
4 . uU r _ A scale to rate the performance, details are available in the table below. |
| nl ! |
| 5. | Score Total score extracted after multiplying Measure Unit with Weightage. |
PSW ocarentence avenatzar rents mmparanncs
: aoe spar
r “| : Fe peeawavn matt =

‘ Conpetoneg
i@titedee & AUTRee) sgl
i ant or gveeat Ovsscipfina Sabi

ahon sbolequed acew ai
siluabvees: my
are.

1. JUDGEMENT (DECISION [tvs
AKG
Lousmessawaneness |...
S.PIRMHING AND
ORGANISING

ELERDERINIP

 

Page 13 of 21
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Description

 

Competencies
1. (20%
Weightage)
Competency
2 a
Description
° Weightage

 

=H
4. iM Measure Unit
|

j

| 5. Score

e This part is linked with PSW’s_ overall Competency
Framework. |
{

Every employee will be assigned 5 Critical Competencies bY |
HR team.

e The overall Weightage of these competencies is set at 20% |
i.e. 4% for each competency.

4
Each competency has a detailed description in this column of | ;
the form. It tells what acceptable behavior is expected from |
each employee. |
|
|
|
|
|
|

Weightage for this section is fixed at 20%, therefore each
competency will have a weightage of 4%.

A scale to rate the performance (Refer to the details available in
the table below).

Total score extracted after multiplying Measure Unit with
Weightage.

Page 14 of 21
“> PSW

itn Selah on PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Description

 
   

e = Individual objectives are the operational goals that each employee

Individual needs to achieve.
1. oo The objectives will be decided at the start of the review period
Weightage) agreed upon by both employee and line manager.
e The overall Weightage of these Individual Objectives is set at 60%
2 How to Employee or line manager may define some points on how to achieve
“achieve? the operational goal(optional)

| Weightage of the goal can be decided by the employee/line manager
3. , Weightage depending on its length/breadth/importance, but the overall weightage
| should not exceed 60%.

| A scale to rate the performance (Refer to the details available in the
_ table below).

"| Total score extracted after multiplying Measure Unit with Weightage.

 

The C-Suite forms will consist of three sections.
e WIG® 20%

 

PAKISTAN SINGLE VINDOW HR-PAF-OO1-CS
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FORM
(C-SUITE}

   
  
  
   

     
 

 

Me | What twill do wo ——— asare Unit
achieve this Y__@uanteed | @
[Optionat) on Seu

e Competencies 20%
e Individual Objectives 60%

     
    
       

Page 15 of 21
 PSW

OAR, KS

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

The forms for other employees will have two sections.
e Competencies 20%
e Individual objectives 80%

Page 16 of 21
 PSW

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Annexure C: Scoring/Rating Criteria

To ensure simplicity and avoid complex calculations, a single rating criterion is used for all 3
sections in the performance management form (details will be discussed in the later clauses of
this SOP).

PERCENTAGE OF
OBJECTIVES SCORING

 

Note ae
0-20% 0.2

 

Expertise and Knowledge advancement linking with Competency descriptions.

SCORING CRITERIA (Competencies)

  

Be SCORE DESCRIPTION

The employee has this expertise at a very superficial level; |
Beginner 0.2 he/she knows that this expertise exists and can describe it due |
to educational or theoretical knowledge at an elementary level. |
The employee owns and masters the basic elements of the skill:
Competent 0.4 = he/she has a direct experience of this expertise (although limited
in time); he/she can fully describe it, to hold a conversation on it,
to teach the basic elements to other resources, to propose simple
innovations (especially for rules and tools).

 

The employee owns and masters all the basic elements of the
_ Proficient 0.6 competence having applied them for a period of at least 1 year:
he/she is able to describe it adequately, to speak about it with an
expert, to train other resources, to propose innovations
(especially for rules and tools).
The employee owns and masters all the basic elements of the
_ Expert 0.8 skill having applied them during his/her professional life for a
period of at least 3 years even in complex environments, he/she
i is able to describe it in detail, to speak about it with an expert, to
manage a training process, to propose innovations (especially for
| rules and tools).
| The employee owns and masters all the basic elements of the
_ Master 1 | Skill; he/she has deep knowledge and a long experience (at least
| 5 years); he/she can describe it in detail, to speak about it with
| an expert, to manage a training process, to propose new
| solutions (especially for rules and instruments). __

 

Page 17 of 21
PSW

the hen, 1d

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

The Final Rating

Overall performanee
rating scale

  

Rating Title Employee Overall Score

 

0-20% Unsatisfactory (U)

21-40% ~ Needs Improvement (NI) _
41-60% _ Meets Job Expectations (ME)
61-80% Exceeds Job Expectations (EE)
81-100% Outstanding (O)

 
 

Rating Title

| uy 0-20% 02

| Needs |
_ Improvement 21-40% 04
_ (NI) |

Meets Job
Expectations 41-60% 06
(ME) |

Exceeds Job |
Expectations 61-80% 0.8
(EE |

 

Outstanding (O)

 

Rationale

 

Consistently performs much below expectations and
required standard/quality while performing tasks and job |
responsibilities.

Unable to contribute towards the team and organizational
success. |
Does not exhibit behavior as per PSW values.
Performs slightly low or does not meet certain expectation
and required standards while performing tasks and job
responsibilities. Needs help and guidance to perform their
tasks.

Insufficient contribution towards the team and
organizational success.

Does not exhibit behavior as per some PSW values.
Satisfactorily meets expectations and standards while |
performing tasks and job responsibilities. |
Regular contribution towards the team and organizational
SUCCESS. |

Often exceeds expectations while performing tasks and |
job responsibilities at an expert level.
Significantly high contribution towards the team and
organizational success.
Exhibits high standards of behavior as per PSW values.
Consistently performs at a level well beyond expectations
from most experienced employees with similar duties and
has mastered the tasks and job responsibilities.
Exceptional contribution towards the team and
organizational success.

 

Page 18 of 21
<&PSW

“ee PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Annexure: D Comparative Ratings with Bell Curve and Performance based

Increments

To inculcate the culture of fair evaluation, the Bell Curve helps firms distinguish employee
performance levels, identify high, average, and low performers, and helps determine promotions,
performance improvement plans, and layoffs (in line with disciplinary policy) by identifying top and
bottom performers. It standardises performance evaluations to promote fairness and objectivity

and shows employees how they compare to their colleagues.

Rating Title = =| Ol La, -a
Unsatisfactory (U) 5% (On the discretion
of CXO / HOD

Needs Improvement (NI
Meets Job Expectations (ME (55% —<—CsCSs

Exceeds Job Expectations (EE)

  

Outstanding (O) 10% |

 

85%

 

bAg ets Juke
Ecpectutang

Page 19 of 21
<PSW

Phe FR ty Mt

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Annexure E: Process Flow

C-Suite Planning

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 20 of 21
&PSW

PL ER Wt 5 Be ae 8 he

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT POLICY

 

Line Manager & Supervisor Quarterly Review

 

 

Page 21 of 21
