SUCCESSION PLANNING

1. Introduction
PSW operates on a performance-driven culture which means effective talent management and business continuity in all of its departments. To ensure this, succession planning is pivotal for planning both short-term and long-term strategies in terms of the retaining and development of existing talent for future leadership roles.

2. Purpose:
The main purpose of the Succession Planning process is to ensure the timely availability of the Right Talent at the Right Time and at the Right Organizational Level. This planning process will help PSW in:
- Identifying critical positions starting from the top tier of the company; and identifying potential successors as per defined criteria
- Developing, planning, and executing succession planning and career development process for potential staff members to continue operations and lead the company in coming years;
- Ensuring talent is rewarded and recognized as well as retained for future growth
- Designing and ensuring training and development processes for potential successors across the organization
- Giving a career path to star performers and helping nurture internal talent
- Ensuring business continuity in case of unavailability of internal resources due to factors such as prolonged leave, illness, immediate resignations, or other unforeseen circumstances
- Maintaining talent availability within PSW by recruiting external resources as and when required.

3. Procedure
The succession planning program will be carried out as under:
a. HR Department will initiate the Succession Planning process by sending a company-wide broadcast to all the senior leadership at the start of the year.
b. HR department will generate a company-wide list of all employees in an excel sheet.
c. HR Department will identify critical/key positions and the person holding critical positions in consultation with the HoDs and the CEO and update the information in excel sheet.
d. Based on the available performance information, HR Department will identify potential candidates as ‘successors’ for critical positions, and the submit the same for approval to the CEO.
e. If the successor is NOT available, a job requisition can be raised, and the position can be advertised subject to the approval as per the Recruitment & Selection process.
f. If a successor is available, HR Department will work alongside with CEO & HOD of the relevant department to carry out GAP Analysis, using the 9-Grid matrix.
g. The GAP Analysis or assessment of successor would be based on 3 parameters:
   i. Ready to move to next position immediately.
   ii. Ready to move to next position in one year.
   iii. Ready to move to the next position in the next two years.
h. After the GAP Analysis, a final list will be prepared for potential successors and shared with the relevant HODs & CEO for their comments and feedback.

[...]

Sr.# | Stay Interview Questionnaire Reply
What do you look forward to when you come to work each day? To improve something or to get something done, or improvement. This gives me motivation
What do you like most or least Most — Group of people forward-looking and collaborating 2. with them, a company of positive-minded people around you about working here? Least — Working on Saturdays
Opportunity to do new things and improve, the opportunity of 3. What keeps you working here? progressively improve things
If you could change something 4. about your job, what would that Building a productive team, which is an indirect role of my job be?
What would make your job more If Company is working with set processes that will make you satisfying? more satisfied
Short-term — Financial compensation
Long-term — Acknowledged for my contribution toward 6. How do you like to be recognized? creating harmony and collaboration between teams and making it a better place of work for all
What talents are not being used in | | can do better-planning roles and strategy development and your current role? business analytics
Learned a lot about business development, what | want to 8. What would you like to learn here? | learn how to gage profitability in a business proposition, and making a final go-no-go decision
Motivate — Any relevant challenge in life with obvious benefits 9 What motivates (or demotivates) | for people around me you? Demotivate - Bad interpersonal behaviour, people who are not straight
Improve the working environment, more conducive. Allow 10. vou? can | do to best support you explore more business opportunities in specific technology fields
14 What can | do more of or less of Needs to be less of operational activities and delegate and "| as your manager? set objectives wit clarity
What might tempt you to leave? Organizational resistance towards better working culture

