23 February, 2024

info@psw.gov.pk

= PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

WWW.DSW.gov.pk

Ph: +92 519245605

oerge i

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT (L&D) POLICY

Reference: L&D/POL/v2- 23

Document Version: 2

 

   

     
   
    

Maintaining and Implementation | CHRO

Responsibility

Effective Date 23 February, 2024
Next Review Date After Every Two Years

   

 
 
 
  
     

 
 
 
  

SS
semis JS
Name: Name:
WED A RRND Si AbTRAAMIN
pai OG 0

Confidential Information: The information provided in this document
is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this document
may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party without the
express written permission of PSW.

 
PS L&D POLICY

tan btn betas PP

 

1. Introduction
PSW operates on a knowledge-driven culture which means that the company believes in
constant learning and growth. Having a learning culture in place not only enhances employee
productivity and improves overall operational efficiency but also creates a talent pool with a
high level of professional competence and up-to-date industry knowledge. The learning &
development policy will provide guidelines detailing the support the company shall provide for
employees’ professional development and growth.

2. Purpose:
The main purpose of the learning & development policy is.

e To create and foster the growth of a knowledge-based environment within PSW.

e To develop a culture of learning and development where employees feel valued because
of their knowledge and skills, and their ability to impart knowledge to others.

e To ensure that the knowledge and skill base of PSW employees is such that it can fulfill the
future needs of the company, both at functional as well as non-functional level mainly on
the technology side and on development of soft skills and leadership abilities.

e To maximize the learning opportunities throughout PSW by developing internal resources
and utilizing services of external resources to impart knowledge, sharpen the existing skills,
share best practices, and stimulate learning.

e To achieve a high level of employee satisfaction with the learning and development
activities.

e To measure and reward PSW employees for their efforts and contributions to developing
a knowledge-based environment.

e To identify high-potential individuals and provide them with tailored development
opportunities, which in turn contributes to effective succession planning readiness.

e Ensure a continuous pipeline of talented individuals to meet the organization’s
management needs.

3. Scope:
The scope of a Learning and Development (L&D) policy refers to the extent and range of
activities, strategies, and guidelines that PSW defines and implements to enhance the
knowledge, skills, and abilities of its employees. An L&D policy outlines the framework within
which the PSW plans, delivers, and evaluates learning initiatives to achieve its strategic
objectives.

4. Definitions:
e Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.
e BHRC means the HR committee of the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.
e Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who will be
responsible for the management of PSW and the implementation of its policies and
procedures in financial and other matters, subject to oversight and directions of the Board.

Page 2 of 14
 

*

+ PSW L&D POLICY

e CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer who is the Head of the Human Resource
Department.

e HoD means the designated Head of Department reporting to a C-suite executive.
e Line Manager means an employee who has another employee (s) reporting to him.
e Officers on Deputation means Government officers temporarily deputed in PSW.
e BHRC means Board of Directors subcommittee for Human Resource

5. Applicability:

This policy applies to all confirmed permanent employees of PSW and Officers on deputation.

Policy Statement

Learning and development takes its mandate from one of the PSW core Values i.e.,
Knowledge-Driven through its people.

PSW is committed to having a workforce prepared to meet current and future business
challenges by providing its employees with appropriate opportunities to develop
knowledge, skills, and competencies.

The learning and development of an employee would be strategically linked with
Performance management and Succession planning of PSW.

Learning provided to one employee will be shared among peers. Sharing of Learning
material and creating a pool of ideas and innovation at the workplace will create healthy
competition.

General Guidelines

Identifying Learning & Development Needs:

Identification of learning needs is the first phase of the learning & development program.
It is based on learning needs related to the requirements of the individual employee and
the needs of the Company. After analyzing the need for training, the Learning &
Development team, in collaboration with HoDs, will design an annual plan of training.
(Refer Annexure — A)

The learning needs of each employee will be identified through the following mechanisms
to ensure that learning efforts are targeted and aligned with organizational and individual

needs.
Learning & Development Needs Mechanisms
Information gathered from the performance reviews Every quarter
Information gathered from succession planning activity Every 02 years

Results from the Employee Engagement Survey (EES)

   
  
 

 
  
 
   
   

Page 3 of 14
SAARI EA, Se

Me PSW L&D POLICY

    

  
  

Individual Behavioral Training Needs Assessment (TNA) to
identify and address the skill gaps and training requirements
based on specific job roles

Every Year
Functional Training Needs Assessment (TNA)
Budget

Each year the HR department will conduct an exercise to establish a comprehensive
training budget. This training budget would cover the costs of internal/external training,
workshops/seminars/professional memberships, certifications, e-learnings, foreign
training, etc.

  
    
 

   

 
 

Formal learning opportunities

Formal learning opportunities refer to all those training interventions that support the
functional need identified by the employee and the Line management through the Training
Need Assessment (TNA) exercises by the L&D team (Refer Annexure A & B). The formal
learning opportunities are time-bound. These include but are not limited to:

Technical Skills Training courses

o Attending conferences, workshops, seminar

o Professional certifications/exams/annual subscriptions (e.g., PMP, SHRM- CP/SCP, Six
Sigma, CPA, ACCA, CA, etc.) and exam preparation courses.

o Formal trainings via Online Learning and E-Learning Platforms

To support the employees’ professional growth, PSW will reimburse the fee for
professional affiliations/memberships such as ICAP, CIPD, SHRM etc. Request for
reimbursement for professional affiliations/ memberships is to be routed through HR after
approval from HoD.

The company will reimburse the cost of only one affiliation/membership per financial year
in case of employees holding multiple affiliations.

Informal learning opportunities

Informal learning opportunities refer to learning experiences that occur outside of formal
educational institutions or structured curriculum. These opportunities are often self-
directed and driven by personal interests and the desire to acquire new knowledge or skills.
Informal learning plays a vital role in fostering continuous growth and innovation within
organizations. Unlike formal education, informal learning is typically less structured and
may not lead to a formal certification.

Examples of informal learning opportunities and how the L&D team can play a valuable
role in supporting and enhancing informal learning experiences are listed below. This action
plan outlines strategies and steps to support and encourage informal learning among

Page 4 of 14
L&D POLICY

PSW

PAAR TER Bed BOE

 

employees within our organization. By leveraging the power of informal learning, we aim
to enhance employee development, knowledge sharing, and overall organizational

effectiveness.
Interventions from L&D

Reading: Learning from books, articles,
online resources, and other written
materials on subjects of interest.

Podcasts: Listening to podcasts that
discuss various subjects, from science
and history to personal development
and entrepreneurship.
Networking and Conversations:
Engaging in discussions and
conversations with peers, mentors, or
experts to learn from their experiences
and perspectives.

Workplace Learning: Acquiring new
skills or knowledge through on-the-job

experiences, projects, and

collaborations.

Online Tutorials and Videos: Utilizing
online platforms like YouTube,
Coursera, or Udemy to access video
tutorials and instructional content on a
wide range of topics.

Foster a culture of knowledge sharing: The
learning team will promote employee
engagement in knowledge-sharing sessions
to cultivate a culture of sharing knowledge.
The trainer will be recognized for their role
in this effort, and this acknowledgment can
serve as a motivating factor for employees
to persist in self-directed learning and to
feel appreciated for their contributions.
Example: Employees participation — in
Knowledge sharing meetups.

Provide resources/ platforms for informal
learning activities: The learning team shall
develop short, focused learning modules
that address specific skills or topics and can
be easily integrated into employees’ work
deliverables. Such as subscriptions to
online learning platforms, access to
relevant books or materials etc.

Example:

e Provide learning resources like articles
on cultivating great teams,
characteristics of high-performance
teams etc.

Assign e-learning courses to managers

like Inclusive Leadership, Coaching

Skills for Leaders & Managers
Celebrate and recognize informal learning
achievements: The learning team shall
highlight success stories where employees
have benefited from informal learning. This
can inspire others and create a culture of
learning. Example: Showcase _ the
achievements through internal
communication and rewards.

 

Page 5 of 14
Daa A La iad WN

 

«x PSW L&D POLICY

 

e Earned certificate is to be displayed on
Linkedin, Viva engage.
e Success Stories to be shared on Viva
engage & social media.
Support Self-directed learning: By actively
supporting and facilitating informal
learning, training teams can create a culture
of continuous learning within the
organization, where employees are
empowered to take ownership of their
professional development in meaningful
and effective ways.
Examples:
e Critical Business Functional Need

(Course on Data Analysis, Managerial
courses etc.)

Employee Development Programs

These are structured programs designed to support employees who are not meeting
performance expectations. These plans outline specific areas of improvement, set
performance targets, and establish a timeline for improvement. These programs are known
as PIPs (Performance Improvement Plans) or (Performance Development Plan) PDP which
often involve close supervision, additional training, coaching, and regular progress reviews
to help employees succeed in the timeline assigned by Line manager/HoD.

 

 

 

 

The learning team, in collaboration with HR team members, will support employees and
line managers in defining some actionable target areas and development needs that will
assist employees in improving their job roles in accordance with the specified competency
framework.

Leadership Development Programs

Leadership Development Programs identify, nurture, and enhance the leadership skills
and abilities of employees within an organization. These programs aim to develop
individuals who can effectively lead teams, drive organizational success, and guide the
organization toward its strategic goals.

In fostering a culture of effective leadership within an organization, the learning team will
implement collaborative and strategic leadership learning interventions (as per Leadership
Competency Framework) that significantly contribute to the achievement of
organizational goals. These leadership programs also include training on inclusive
leadership to ensure that leaders are equipped to lead diverse teams effectively.

Page 6 of 14
x PSW L&D POLICY

8.

PHA LA bieid ME

The learning team shall play a critical role in providing the necessary resources, guidance,
and opportunities to Leaders or future leaders (identified through Succession Planning or
any other OD intervention) to develop and exhibit strong leadership skills.

e Post-Training Evaluation
1. Post-training, employees’ progress will be evaluated by measuring improvements in
performance metrics tied to their KPls. (Refer Annexure - C)
2. Feedback will be gathered by the employees and the managers to assess the
effectiveness of the training content and delivery methods.
3. Training strategies will be adjusted based on evaluation results to evaluate continuous
improvement and alignment with organizational goals.

Roles and Responsibilities

The responsibility for developing the skills and knowledge does not rest with the HR function
aione. It is shared with the individuals who must actively develop themselves and their
managers must demonstrate their commitment to train and develop their teams
appropriately. The key responsibilities of employees, line manager/HOD, and HR are as
follows:

Employee Responsibility
PSW recognizes the need for each employee to learn and develop their skills continuously
and will support individuals to help in achieving their deliverables, since PSW expects
individuals to take responsibility for their own self-development. As a result, the employees
would be responsible to:
i. Take ownership of learning opportunities and share knowledge/resources with
colleagues.
ii. Attend learning and development activities when provided.
iii. Apply acquired skills & knowledge to the job and share outcomes with other
colleagues.
iv. Be responsible for delivering results as per desired and agreed commitments with
the management.

HOD/Line Manager Responsibility

It is critical that the HoD and the Line Manager identify the correct L&D needs of their team

that are in line with the Job description, Performance objectives, and relevant core

competencies. HoD is responsible to

i. Promote and encourage employees to undertake learning and development

opportunities and encourage and coach individuals to help them achieve their full
potential. Ensure that the team actively participates in L&D activities to enhance overall
performance.

ii. | Provide timely, consistent, and appropriate feedback to the team regarding their L&D

needs as per their job requirements and organizational needs.

Page 7 of 14
 PSW L&D POLICY

TAT Lar ela a RNA

Be responsible for the delivery of results committed and agreed upon after the learning
and development opportunities provided by the company.

e HR Responsibility
i. Ensure that the L&D policy is properly explained and communicated to all the

stakeholders.

Conduct and regularly update training need assessment of the company workforce
including employees and management.

iii, Plan, develop, and implement L&D activities in line with the available budget.

Keep track of available learning opportunities (both internally and externally) and provide
support for L&D and succession planning interventions.

v. Evaluate, scrutinize, and recommend/not recommend the L&D request.

vi. | Develop partnerships and networks to meet workforce development needs.

Responsible for updating and sharing a compiled Training info Repository Sheet as and

when required.
vill. | Provide platform for both Formal and Informal learning opportunities.

vii.

9. Compliance

The CHRO along with HoDs is required to ensure the compliance of this Policy. Intentional
deviation from this policy will be considered unacceptable from both a compliance and code

of conduct perspective.

10. Amendments

The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any
time. Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the HRC and approved by the
Board of Directors excluding amendments and changes to the process published in Annexures

of this document.

Page 8 of 14
Pha Wha Wee ih ewinticey

~~ PSW L&D POLICY

ANNEXURE-A

TRAINING NEED ANALYSIS (TNA) PROCESS

e TNA forms with clearly define the purpose and objectives of conducting a Training Needs
Analysis would be shared with HoDs. This includes improving overall performance,
addressing specific skill gaps, or aligning training programs with organizational goals.

e Data collected from outcomes of Performance Appraisal and Competency Framework
ratings will be incorporated in the TNA form.

e Information from TNA forms will be analyzed to identify patterns, trends, and skill gaps.
This will be done by comparing the desired performance level with the current
performance level to determine the training needs. This analysis helps to prioritize the
areas that require immediate attention and resources.

e Training programs will be designed to align with the identified gaps. This could include
creating new training materials, modifying existing programs (if needed), or sourcing
external training providers. Consider different delivery methods, such as classroom
training, online courses, workshops, or On-the-job training, based on the nature of the
training needs and job roles.

e Relevant training programs will be rolled out to the department and the learning team will
provide necessary resources, support, and guidance to ensure the successful delivery of
the training.

e HoDs/ HR (should they feel the need) may also recommend some specific learning needs
for individuals or a group of employees through the course of the year.

e Learning needs for an employee must be identified keeping in mind his/her current job role
requirements. Employees may be trained for future roles only if they have been identified
as a successor for any critical position.

Page 9 of 14
“Me % PSW L&D POLICY

PAR IA Dothan BIEN

ANNEXURE-B
FORMAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES PROCEDURE

Employee on his own or HR department as per agreed L&D Plan for individual or
consolidated L&D plan for the organization where individual or group level training is
identified or approved under the budgets, will identify and/or recommend a Learning
intervention.
Employees will be required to submit complete details of the identified training
intervention to HR after getting necessary approvals from the HoD at least 2 weeks prior
to the learning event.
The HR department will evaluate the suitability of the learning course and its alignment
with the L&D plan as well as PSW objectives and send it to the CFO with the final approval
for processing/payment of applicable fee and other expenses etc.
On-site courses held in other countries, or online courses for which the organization will
spend at least USD 1000/- or equivalent (for G1-G4) and USD 2000/- or equivalent (for
G5 & G6) will require prior approval of the CEO PSW.
The employee may incur expenses only after receiving approval from HR. The employee
must then submit the following documents to the finance department.

i. Application duly approved by HR.

ii. Invoice/Receipt of payment of expenses/subscription/fee.
After concluding training, the employee must submit a certificate of completion or similar
document and a professional development report (when applicable) to HR to be placed in
the employee's personnel file.
In case of failure, non-attendance or breach of the code of conduct during training,
employees will not be given any individual L&D opportunity for the next 6 months.
The HR department has the sole right to enquire about the results produced at any point
in time.
PSW will not pay for an employee to retake a course.
Any employee who has an international or local Learning & Development opportunity
(physical or online) for which the organization will spend at least USD 1000/- or equivalent
(for G1-G4) and USD 2000/- or equivalent (for G5 & G6) is required to serve with PSW at
least one year from the date of completion of the course. If the employee intends to leave
the organization within one year after that L&D event, PSW has a right to deduct the cost
of funds on a pro-rata basis at its discretion from the final settlement of that employee. An
undertaking will be signed by the employee, which will be counted from the date of
payment. (Refer Annexure - D)
In case an employee leaves during the training/certification program, the total cost
incurred so far will also be returned to PSW in the final settlement of that employee.
Each employee can be part of a maximum of 3 Learning & Development interventions in a
financial year.

Page 10 of 14
% PSW L&D POLICY

PAT Ls AL EN

ANNEXURE-C
FORMS

Functional Competency Based Training Need Analysis (TNA)

Functional Compet

Performance Matfic Ac tials Desired Ovtone Ren aural arly

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCE Rn nstared-eoouM Sc ao Eee

PMD EU ato sc ida} Bat i rat a sent pe Bid

Eflective writing email will make employee to comey message
effectively resultin sreanfining conraunication ard imeroving overall
productivity, EMective email welling sll cae time and participants wll
‘beable to contribute in butding and maintaining poste professional
relationship within departments.

 

 

‘These sills will asst participants in taking ownership of understanding
tole, gosh and responsibiities, Training wil enable them to identity
possible challenges and what needs tp be done to mitigate or overcome
CiWork Accountability & Adaptability | those challenges before theyimpact work,

DProblem-solving skits Further, they wilibe able tn adapt and work eHfectively in different

Di Thinking shuts think big. positive) sStuations 2s they will ba able to carry out a variety of tasks and remains
Garand level headed under pressure They wit be able to quickly
aduist to new situations or processes. and embrace change 2san
Spportunity for gremth,

 

 

 

EiWork Accountability & Adaptability - | The sill willdeveop participants’ abidty to handle challenges and solve
‘being responsible towards objectives of —_problerra effectively. They will Jeam io approach problems with a
oneselt and team solubon-orented miedset, enables hem to think cifically, and rake
DProblene- solving Indormed decisions. Also enable managers to prioritize ther own
DManagerial Sills ‘workload and focus. on high salle tacks that require their expertise.
These magagerial skits wit let themiree up their time forstratagic
planning, decison making. and other important responsibil ties

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘These personal development stilt will enable employees, to assess thelr
‘ownatfitude and bow it helps or hinders their achievements.

Abiity to evaluate ownsel! definition of success. taking into

‘actound own adtitude, actions and acknowled pements

 

 

 

CO Solving conflicts, Analysing conflicts & Predicting conflicts
CO Asrareness & importanr about working in teat
hoster positive working atmosphere firust building)
Danae ef oun vevtingstyle
Di able to assess workang stytes of members of tearn
1 able ta adiust tasks to working styles of others (department / team)

 

 

Dable to identity and understand one’s own emotion and

feelings.

Gi able to understand other peonte feefings and reeagnize

how | would feelin theirshoes.

{Di able te interact socially with other people and te succesclutly navigate
soda! official simations? events

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 11 of 14
oe PSW L&D POLICY

Training Effectiveness Assessment Form

Employee Name: Duration: -------------------

Department: Dagens ann en ence eerece ne
Training Mode: —_ In House ‘a
Oniine/ E-learning O

(If Other) Please specify :

EES yiite WP {orel Ly
COE Lsi Te}
Baldy Ajsuoys

US nied ROR CMe elite a een aero Earl aee tere tuccl reece EERE Cm Teta EV ts
Resse

TRAINING CONTENT

The training content met key leaming objectives

The content was well organized and easy to follow

The visual aids (images/pictures/video) used were very useful

Adequate time was provided for questions and discussion

TRAINING EXECUTION
Participants interest was kept at a high level throughout the session
The activities and examples given were very useful in understanding the course content

OUTCOMES
| feel we will be able to apply the leaming from this content at work

Taking this session was worth time and effort

WHAT IMPROVEMENTS WOULD YOU SUGGEST FOR THE CONTENT?

 

 

PLEASE PROVIDE YOUR OVERALL FEEDBACK OF TRAINING

 

 

 

 

Thankyou for your feedback!

Page 12 of 14
ve PSW L&D POLICY

 

 

Post Training Assessment Form

Line Manager
Name: Head of Department :

Department: Sub -Department:
Training Mode: —_— In House OJ Duration:
Online/ E-learning oO Date:

(if Other) Please specify : Training Name:

This form is created to assess the success of the training programme that your team member attended, as well
as to highlight the employee's optimal level following this training intervention

Will you introduce this training to your new colleagues, managers and other appropriate people?
1 .
Comments:

Assess his/her knowledge level after the training
2 Comments:
Assess his/her skill level after the training Moderate

Comments: Advanced

her existing knowledge?

Comments:

“ Did you ask him or her to share the insights from the training programme he or she attended to assess his or
4

Has he/she applied the leamed concepts/skills at work or on any project?
5

Comments:

Have you observed any noticeable changes in his/ her performance or approach/ behavior?

Evaluate the potential impact of learning on the team and organization on a scale of 5-1 (where 5 being
highest and 1 being lowest)

 

Page 13 of 14
Me %ePSW L&D POLICY

Palen Palate

 

ANNEXURE-D

 PSW

PAKAIAN SINGLE WANOOW

UNDERTAKING FOR TRAINING S/CERTIFICATIONS

I, , being an employee of PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW, do hereby

declare that if | intend to leave the organization within one year after | have attained the company
sponsored training/certification, the organization has a right to deduct the cost of funds on pro-rata

basis from my final settlement.

Name:
Signature:

Date:

 

Page 14 of 14
