
~~ PSW

& PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

 

Note for Approval

| February 07, 2022 |
To: Chief Executive Officer
From: Head HR & Admin / Chief Financial Officer

Subject: Approval of Health Care Benefits

 

 

 

 

1. The Pakistan Single Window Company (PSWC) was incorporated in April 2020. An
ad-hoc organizational structure was put in place in January 2021 to operationalize the
company and as the company was in the process of being established, ceriain policies
including the pay and compensation package for the employees were devised and
implemented on ad-hoc basis to address immediate needs of the employees including
the policy on healthcare benefits. However, it has been observed that the current policy
is not equitable, discriminates between different categories of employees, and is not
aligned with recommended best practices.

2. Inaddition, the PSW allowance is not taken into consideration for calculation of medical
allowance of the Chief Domain Officer/Domain Officers which is contrary to the
Company policy for other employees who are granted medical allowance on their gross
salaries (basic plus house rent allowance).

3. After an extensive review of the existing policy taking into consideration employee
welfare, the financial cost to the company, and the best practices adopted by other
companies, the Management proposes a transition from the current system of salary
based medical allowance to a group health insurance plan that is more equitable,
provides better and more comprehensive health coverage, and results in cost savings
to the employees as well as to PSW Company.

4, Under the proposed plan:

a. The medical allowance currently given to PSW employees will be added to their
salaries to mitigate financial impact on employees arising due to the proposed
transition.

b. The calculation of medical allowance for the Chief Domain Officer/Domain
Officers will be revised and will be added to their salaries as ‘adjustment of
admissible benefits’.

5. The total financial impact for the proposed plan is Rs. 100 million in savings in next 3
years.

6. The attached PSW Health Benefits Policy Note may be submitted to the
HR/Nominations Committee for their review and recommendation to the Board for
approval of Option 2 in the attached document along with a one-time adjustment in
salary of all employees. Upon approval, the group health insurance will be procured

through a PPRA compliant process. jh fobe
. 4 : L
< a“ re ff Y, 0

Chief Financial Officer

  

Chi xecutive Officer
info@psw.gov.pk
WWw.psw.gov.pk

Ph: +92 51 9245605

o©egda

PSW Head office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad,

CHANGE IN PSW HEALTH CARE
BENEFITS

 
 
  
 
   
  
  

Working Paper

Dated: 07-Feb-2022

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged outside the intended
organizations without the express written permission of PSW.
CHANGE IN PSW HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

Contents

EX@CULIVE SUMIMALY ....sssessessescssecsvessnssssossssesssesssecsssssssssesussvscssssersssusssesscssersnscsussstussssssavsensecssersanensnesesesscseseses 3
BaCkBrOUNG.......s..ssscssessessossssessarsassessesssecsssssssvssssssssssssssesssssusserscarensesuseussasssssssseessssssistssssussesesesssssasesoeesseeeceee 3
Problems with the Current Policy ....ssscssscssesssssesssssssssssssessssecsessersusssusesssscssssssssusessssussssusentesstescsseesseeeseceeeccce, 4
ODjeCtiVeS........sscsccssssessesssssessnsseesssevesesssenssessssuecssssesssassncsscussscssessescesareassatsansassnacsussasensipsavsyvarsatstuerenssssessesess 4
POHicy OPtionS..........ecsccsccsersessessessssesseesnssesnesesscsesessussussesssasensnessseessnvsscssssesarszessessussessucacqecavassassvenenspusecesseesese 5

Page 2 of 6
CHANGE IN PSW HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

Executive Summary

The Pakistan Single Window Company (PSWC) was incorporated under Section 42 of the
Companies Act, 2017 in April 2020 to support Pakistan Customs and Government of Pakistan in
the development, implementation, operations and maintenance of the PSW system. The
Company was formally notified as the ‘operating entity’ for the PSW system in June 2021.

PSW organizational structure was put in place in January 2021 to operationalize the company
and as the company was in the process of being established, certain policies including the pay
and compensation package for the employees were devised and implemented to address
immediate needs of the employees including the policy on healthcare benefits. However, it has
been observed that the current policy is not equitable, discriminates between different categories
of employees, and is not aligned with recommended best practices.

After an extensive review of the existing policy on health care benefits to the PSW employees
taking into consideration employee welfare, the financial cost to the company, and the practices
adopted by other companies, this policy note proposes a transition from the current system of
salary based medical allowance to a group health insurance plan that is more equitable, provides
better and more comprehensive health coverage, and results in cost savings to the employees
as well as to PSW.

Implementation of the proposal will result in a one-time transition cost of Rs. 29 million but will
result in net savings of Rs.100 million over a period of next three years.

Background

Health care benefits are an important component of employee compensation packages and have
a direct impact on employee turnover, recruitment and retention policies, compensation costs,
employee absenteeism, employee morale and productivity. Companies usually offer healthcare
benefits in two ways:

1. Medical Allowance-this could be either:
a. a fixed stipend paid in addition to the salary or
b. areimbursement of medical claims as and when they accrue according to specified
spending limits.

In either of the above, employees themselves are responsible for arranging healthcare.

2. Group Health Insurance- in this case the employees are offered group health insurance
by the company. The premium is either paid by the company or in some cases co-shared
with the employees. Group health insurance offers wider coverage, access to a wider
network of doctors and hospitals, and may include employees’ dependents at a marginal
additional cost.

PSW is currently paying medical allowance to all its employees (with the exception of the domain)
Ve

officer) i.e., @ 2 gross salaries (basic salary plus house rent allowance) per annum. D

t

‘

Page 3 of 6
CHANGE IN PSW HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

officers, on the other hand, are being paid @ 2 Gross salaries as per last government pay slip
{without factoring in the PSW allowance admissible to them) due to lack of clarity on their
admissible benefits. The medical allowances are essentially taxable raises given to every
employee over and above the salary amount negotiated during recruitment. The employee may
or may not spend the same on healthcare.

Problems with the Current Policy

Inequitable: allowance provided to the lowest paid employee of the company is inadequate to
meet even basic healthcare requirements while high salaried individuals receive even higher
allowances.

Discriminatory: the policy discriminates between regular employees and domain officers
seconded by the government which is creating discontent amongst the domain officers.

Negative impact on employee recruitment and retention: it is challenging to attract and retain
employees in absence of a comprehensive health insurance plan especially from G-1 to G-4
levels.

Higher financial cost to the Company: As per the current policy, the PSW will be paying Rs.85
million in medical allowances which are projected to increase to Rs.112 million in three years time
assuming the total headcount to be 229 as depicted in the table below.

Table 1: Financial impact of the Current Scheme (Rs. in Millions)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a Gross Medical
Description Head Count eran re Ane
Current Employees 94 213 35 248
Ex. Domain team
+ —
a PSW Domain Team 9 48
Forecasted As per budget | 126 290

FY 2021-22
F Total 2292s
Objectives

A realization of the above-mentioned problems triggered a review of the existing policy by PSW's
senior management. Corporate policies and recommended best practices adopted by other
similar sized companies were also consulted. PSW's senior management including the Head of
HR, CFO, CTO, CDO, Company Secretary and the Chief Internal Auditor were also included in
the consultations. Finally, employee ownership and consent fas been obtained by circulating the
draft proposal through respective heads of department. Ae

—_

Page 4 of 6
CHANGE IN PSW HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

The objective of the proposed policy is to:

Provide comprehensive healthcare benefits to all employees in an equitable manner:
Remove the difference between PSW regular employees and domain officers;

Improve working environment and employee benefits to attract. talented individuals;
Reduce burden on company finances while at the same time ensure that the employees’
financial interests are not adversely affected.

RON a

Policy Options
During the review process, the following options were taken into consideration:

Option 1: Continue with the existing mechanism with necessary adjustment in the medical
allowance of domain officers only.
Option 2: Replace the medical allowance with a comprehensive group insurance scheme.

Based on the market research and quotes obtained from leading health insurance companies the
following medical plan was found to be most suitable:

Number of Employees- 229

Total Cost

 
 

Description (Rs. in Millions)

 

 

OPD coverage-Rs. 100,000/- per employee per annum on 26

reimbursement basis | |
| IPD coverage-Rs.500,000/- to 1,000,000/- per employee per annum 4

including immediate family & Parents

Total 50

 

Financial Impact

The financial impact of the above two options is given below:

Table 2: Financial impact on PSW’' (Rs. in Millions)

    

   

   

    

    

Description Year1 Year2 Year3 Total
Medical expense (current scheme) | 85

Option 1: Adjustment of medical allowance of

Domain Team —

Net Impact 6
| Option 2: Replace the medical allowance with a | | |

comprehensive group insurance scheme. 50 55 61 166

Net Impact _ 35 | 43 $1 129 |

' Calculated using the payroll for January 2022 as benchmark. Numbers are subject to change with the change in
number of employees.

  
    
 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 6
CHANGE IN PSW HEALTHCARE BENEFITS

Risks

Clearly, Option 2 offers the better policy option however despite its better coverage, the
implementation of the proposal will result in loss of income to PSW employees of all grades and
is likely to lead to the following negative outcomes:

Negative employee morale.

Resignations/job switching.

Negative market sentiment about the company.
Difficulty to attract competent resource in future.
Legal challenges.

In order to mitigate these risks, a one-time adjustment in salary equivalent to the total amount of
the current medical allowance less proposed OPD coverage of Rs.100,000/- (reimbursable on
submission of medicai claims/receipts) may be considered for all employees’ on one time basis.
This will result in transition costs of Rs. 29 million but will still result in net savings of Rs. 100
million in the next 3 years. On individual basis, each employee will be enjoying enhanced and
more equitable insurance coverage for themselves, their immediate families and parents. This
one-time adjustment will not be offered to new employees hired after the approval of the proposed
policy.

Recommendation
In view of the foregoing, Policy Option 2 is recommended to be adopted by PSW along with a

one-time adjustment in salary of all employees as proposed above. On approval, the group health
insurance will be procured through a public tender. —y

Page 6 of 6
