
. ns [> S } vA \ J sza info@psw.gov.pk

@ PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

€ www.psw.gov.pk
& Ph: +9251 9245605

PSW Head office, NTC
Center, G-5/2,

Islamabad.

Revised Travel Policy

    
   
   
  
 
 

Reference:

Document Version: 1.1

     
 

Maintaining and Administration Department
Implementation Responsibility

Effective Date Approval Date

Next Review Date After Every Year

 
      

 
   
 

    

Prepared by

  
   

Reviewed by

Signature. -~ 5 >

   

       
  

Signature: ,-./\ aw ... |)
; [ Xx pe "Y

Name: Mian Nouman Ahmad Name: Salman Bashir
Designation: Assistant Manager Designation: Head of HR &
Administration Admin

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged outside the intended
organizations without the express written permission of PSW.

  
 
    
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1
&PSW
*

nLite FOS WEE,

Document Revision History:

Version

24'" August, 2022 | Admin Department

|

 

 

 

Head of HR & Admin

mo ®
: 8
g oO
> 7
g Tl

 

Approved by: Chief Executive Officer
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1

PSW

PEER ES Winn F Prey

TRAVEL POLICY (REVISED) V: 1.1
INTRODUCTION

From time-to-time employees may be required to travel from the post of permanent duty on official
business to fulfill the objectives set by the Company. Travel regulations and guidelines given
below shall apply to all employees of Pakistan Single Window Company (the Company).

POLICY

The purpose of this Policy is to facilitate official travel by Company employees in order to clarify
the process of authorizations, administrative arrangements for traveling, reimbursement of
expenses, and entitlements for boarding and lodging. In addition to the afore stated, in line with
best corporate practices, the travel Policy has the following objectives:

a) Ensuring that adequate cost controls are in place.
b) Ensuring that travel and related expenditures are appropriate; and
c) Ensuring employees get timely reimbursement of authorized expenses.

All Company employees are expected to exercise sound judgment while undertaking travel to
ensure that it is in the best interest of the Company and that viable alternatives such as virtual or
local meetings/calls/engagements do not exist to ensure judicious use of the Company funds.

2.1. TRAVEL AUTHORIZATION

a) All official trips to be made within the country shall require approval of the respective Head
of Department (HoD). The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) shall be the approving authority
for the official trips of the HaDs.

b) All official foreign trips shall require approval of the CEO with the recommendation of Head
of Department (HoD) for all Grades/Levels.

c) Official foreign trips of the CEO from Company funds shall require approval of the
Chairman on behalf of the Board of Directors (BoD). Donor/external funded international
travel may be undertaken under prior intimation to the Chairman’s office.

d) Official travel is approved and authorized only when it is determined that the functions to
be performed by such travel are essential to the interest of the Company and those
functions cannot be accomplished by other economical means.

e) Travel approvals must be obtained from the HoD/CEO, whichever the case may be, and
initiated at least seven (07) working days in advance.

2.2. PROCEDURE<

a) The employee is responsible for managing his/her authorization procedure and relevant
travel request forms. All employees are required to fill in the Travel Request form as per
the procedure prescribed by the Administration Department.

* Travel Request form and approval process has been automated w.e.f. July 1, 2022 on PSW Connect
(SharePoint portal)

 
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1

. wv. PSVWV/
© nanite tetA REI
b) All travel requests shall specify clearly the purpose of travel which distinctly identifies the
need for the travel related to the performance of official duties and shall be supported by
a detailed itinerary where required.

c) Employees may indicate their preferred mode of travel and accommodation within the
approved financial limits while making travel requests. Additional logistics requirements
such as local transportation, equipment, refreshments for meeting participants etc. may
also be intimated to allow the Administration Department to make appropriate
arrangements in time.

d) Generally, employees are not permitted to purchase tickets (plane, rail, and road) on their
own. All travel arrangements must be made by the Administration Department. However,
in case of emergencies, employees may make their own arrangements and claim
reimbursement for actual expenses by providing supporting documents as evidence.

2.3. MODE OF TRAVEL

a) An employee may travel at the Company’s expense on official visit on any one of means
mentioned in Annex — A.

b) All employees will be allowed to travel by air if the distance to the destination is too far and
exceeds 500 kms (one side) or is unsafe for travelling by road.

c) While deciding the mode of travel, consideration of economy and travel time shall be taken
into account regardless of the Grade/Level of the employee.

d) Airline reservations should be made in advance to take advantage of reduced fares.
Travelers should carefully consider all available options and select the most efficient
method in terms of cost, time in transit, and required arrival times at destination.

e) Any change to the ticket resulting in a higher price or any cancellation of a non-refundable
ticket will require approval of the Head of HR & Admin.

f) Ifan employee chooses an itinerary that includes unofficial business for personal reasons
(i.e. including a stop in another city), travel costs will be covered for the lowest available
airfare between the employee's duty station and the meeting site. Any additional charges
will be the employee’s responsibility.

g) Cost of canceling and rebooking flights is not reimbursable unless proven that it was
necessary or required for legitimate business reasons.

h) Business Class for Air Travel (Local/Foreign) is allowed only for the CEO and the BoD.

2.4. BOARDING AND LODGING

a) Employees planning to use their own private arrangement for boarding and lodging shall
be paid 50% of the maximum amount as per their Grade limits specified in Annex-A.

b) Due to safety & security concerns, all the female employees falling in Grades G-1 to G-3
shall be entitled to hotel accommodation equivalent to the middle management grade. All
other benefits will be calculated as per the employee Grade/Level.

c) Hotel accommodation and other official expenses are exclusive of any applicable taxes.

d) Admin department will arrange employee’s preferred hotel accommodation based on
availability of room falling in the prescribed Grade limit. In case of non-availability of room
within the approved limit, alternative arrangements will be made in consultation with the
employee consequent to the approval of the Head of HR & Admin.

     

“4N

C >
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1

 PSW
e) In case of any event, workshop, seminar or conference, the employee may be exempted
from the hotel limit and accommodated in the same hotel where the event is organized for
reasons of efficiency, cost optimization etc. with prior approval of the Head of HR & Admin.

f) In case of any uncertainty, emergency or critical situation affecting the safety of the
employees, the limits mentioned in Annex — A may be waived off with the approval-of the
CEO upon recommendation of the Head of HR & Admin.

g) The approved limits for hotel accommodation may be reviewed/revised every year on July
1% and submitted to the Board for approval in the first quarter.

2.5. DAILY ALLOWANCES

a) Daily allowances in connection with the sundry expenses associated (personal taxi, tips,
telephone, meal, laundry etc.) with travelling shall be paid to Company employees in
accordance with Annex -—A

b) Employees on official visits will not be entitled to claim compensatory leave and meal
allowance payments on account of late sittings.

2.6. LOCAL TRANSPORTATION

a) The Company will arrange vehicles from an authorized vendor for official visits of
employees while travelling. In case of non-availability, employees can manage traveling
through their personal vehicle as per following limits:

i. Rs. 40/km if using their personal car and Rs.15/km if using a motorbike for official
responsibilities.

ii. | Approved limit of inter-city mileage is mentioned in Annex — A or Careem/Uber/any
other authorized cab service having proper invoice can be used.

2.7. NON-REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES
Travelers may not be reimbursed for the following expenditures:

i. Airline club memberships.
ii | Barber/beautician.
ii. | Personal entertainment.
iv. Fines and other expenses incurred as a result of traffic violations.
v. Taxi cost for personal dinners or other non-business purposes.
vi. | Laundry expenses for trips shorter than one week; and
vi. Costs related to travel, accommodation, entertainment, or any other expense
incurred by the employee with regards to their spouse or any other family member.

2.8. PROCEDURE FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL CLAIMS

a) Upon return, the employees are required to submit their travel expense claims as per
prescribed procedure along with supporting documents such as the boarding passes,
hotel bills, toll taxes, taxi fares, receipts for local transport etc.

b) For lodging expenditure paid by the employees on their own, vendor receipts/invoices
must be submitted to process the claim.

c) Travel expense claim form should be submitted within five days from the date of
completion of the tour.

Pakistan

Single
Window

 
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1

“&PSW

2.9. TRIP REPORT

All employees are required to submit a trip report before their Daily Allowance (DA) or
travel expense claims are processed. Trip report shall be submitted to the Finance
department, with a copy to respective HoD.

3. OTHER GUIDELINES
3.1. TRAVEL COORDINATION

Each employee must mention on his/her Travel Request Form an address where the
Company may reach him/her for discharge of official work at the temporary duty station,
in case of personal accommodation arrangement.

3.2. OTHER JOURNEY

If an employee, while on Company business is summoned in his/her official capacity by a
court of law or any other authority in Pakistan, he/she shall be entitled to DA as on official
tour. Prior approval of the HOHR would be required in this case.

3.3. TRAVEL BY NON-PSW EMPLOYEES

a) In certain cases where travel is required by non PSW employees such as external
consultants, officers on temporary attachment with PSW, and authorized government
officers participating in company related business including stakeholder consultation
meetings, exposure visits, company sponsored events etc., travel authorization shall be
granted on case-to-case basis by the CEO on the recommendation of the concerned HoD.
Such travelers shall be treated equivalent to the middle management category and shall
not be entitled to DA claims though actual expenses incurred on Company business may
be incurred/re-imbursed on production of receipts.

b) The travel request of such travelers shall be generated by the concerned department on
the prescribed formats and all supporting documents including trip report shall be
submitted to the Finance department after completion of the trip.

c) Alist of all non-PSW employees traveling on company expense shall be submitted to the
Audit Committee on quarterly basis.

 
Revised Travel Policy V: 1.1

PSW

WRIA tere ermal

Annexure —A

 

   
       

   

     
 

     
  

  
     
 

  

Daily Allowance
Per Day

     
       
  

 
 

   

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

  

    
    

  
       

 

   

 

 

  

 

Accommodation / Room
soe By Air By Train By Road Peon et Rent
(Local / (Inter-City) reper Local | Foreign Foreign
Foreign) (PKR) US$ US$
Directors & Business / | AC Business 4,000 200 300
Executives Economy Sleeper Rs.15 per Km on
Grades G-6 & G-7 personal vehicle /|  Careem/
[ Middle Business Class Uber
Management Coach for ble [Taxi (paid on 3,500 150 20,000 250
Grades G-4 & G-5 ranspo actual)
———_ Economy | AC Sleeper
Officers
Grades G-1 to G-3 16,000 200

 

 

 

 
