
~- PSW
“ogee Ps >W
Note for Approval
January 20, 2022 PSW/IAD/2021-22/002 |
To: Chief Executive Officer, PSW SO |
| From: Chief Internal Auditor
“Subject: Approval of revised Whistleblowing Policy - |

Pakistan Single Window is required by the Public Sector Companies (Corporate Governance)

Rules, 2013 to develop a Whistleblowing policy. In this regard, a policy was prepared last year

before establishment of Internal Audit Department (IAD) and approved by the Board on May 3,

2021. The policy provided the ‘basic guidelines for handling such cases and made HR

Department responsible for implementing the policy. Considering that the IAD is functional now

and has a major role in administration of this policy as per corporate best practices, the policy

has been revised to make IAD custodian of the policy. During the review, several other
modifications have also been suggested to make it more inclusive and transparent. Significant
revisions are listed below:

e Policy coverage has been expanded to include all other stakeholders such as management,
directors, vendors (contractors, suppliers, consultants, agents with whom the Company has
agreements in place), customers and any person associated with the Company in addition to
the employees.

e List of events / matters triggering whistleblowing has been revised for clarity and conciseness.
The scope has been broadened by including events / matters that are transpiring, or
transpired in the past, or is / are likely to transpire in the future.

-e Employee's career related issues have been excluded from the scope of this Policy.

e The role of IAD has been included in place of HR Department to ensure independence and
objectivity during the whole process.

e Respective roles of the Audit Committee and the Board have been added in the Policy such
as decision on anonymous complaints, deciding on the mode of investigation, composition of
investigative team, review of final investigation report and course of action based on
recommendations of investigation report.

¢ Options will be available for whistleblowers to report a concern in writing on Disclosure of
Concern, or by calling on +92-51-9211127, or by using the independent “Speak Out” email
address speakout@psw.gov.pk.

e Anonymous reporting is not encouraged and shall be considered at the discretion of the Audit
Committee upon recommendation of the Chief Internal Auditor.

e Audit Committee will decide on the best course of action based on the preliminary report of
initial assessment conducted by the IAD. If an investigation is considered necessary, an
investigative team may be appointed by the Audit Committee.

e Reporting in good faith is encouraged and reporting with malicious intent or to cause distress,
anger, or irritation or on account of any personal rivalry will render the whistleblower liable to
disciplinary action.

e CIA will produce a quarterly report for review of the Audit Committee and the CEO as the
case may be. Whistleblowing records are to be retained for a period of at least ten years.

e The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the Policy at any
time. Any changes to the Policy shall be reviewed and recommended by the Audit Committee
for approval by the Board of Directors.

e The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the whistleblowing policy and protection
mechanism while CIA is responsible for the implementation of the Policy and matters
incidental thereto.

The Audit Committee is requested to review & recommend the attached Whistleblowing Policy
for approval by the Board of Directors.

 

 

 

 

 

C_.
Chief Internal Auditor

 
info@psw.gov.pk
Www. psw.gov.pk
Ph: +92 51 9245605

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

   

WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY
Reference: WBP/POL/v1.1-22
Document Version: 1 (May 3, 2021)

Version: 1.1

Internal Audit

Chief Internal Auditor

Reviewed by

  
 
    

 
 
  
  

Custodian

  
 

Maintaining and
Implementation Responsibility

Effective Date —

| Next Review Date

   
 
   
 
 
    

 

   
  
 
 

Prepared by

 

      

 

    

Signature:
Name: Khalid Jnumra

Designation: Chief Internal Designation:
Auditor

Signature:

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 

 

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged outside the intended
organizations without the express written permission of PSW.

sa
PSW

WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

1. Introduction

Pakistan Single Window (“the Company”) is committed to conduct its operations with honesty and
integrity. The Company is dedicated to conduct its affairs and working with all stakeholders
including employees, suppliers, customers, and contractors in a manner which is lawful, ethically
responsible and reflects the Company's values. Towards this end, PSW has adopted the General
Code of Conduct (“the Code”), which lays down the principles and standards that should govern
the actions of the Company and its employees. All members of staff are expected to maintain
high standards in accordance with the applicable laws and the Code.

In pursuance of the applicable Laws, Regulations, Rules and the Code, any actual or potential
violation of the Code, howsoever insignificant or perceived as such, would be a matter of serious
concern for the Company. Since the role of the employees in pointing out such violations cannot
be undermined, consequently, a Whistleblowing Policy and Protection Mechanism is being
developed.’

The Policy encourages employees or contractors or any person to report promptly suspected
occurrence(s) of any unethical, illegal or inappropriate event without retribution in order to prevent
them in future. The whistleblowing protection mechanism encourages and enables all concerned
to raise concerns within the Company rather than overlooking a problem or ‘blowing the whistle’
outside.

2. Purpose

a) To ensure that all cases of suspected wrongdoing and misconduct are reported and
managed in a timely and appropriate manner.

b) To encourage identification and reporting of all improper or unethical or inappropriate
behavior at all levels of the Company.

c) To provide clear procedures for reporting such matters in a confidential manner and taking
corrective measures.

d) To administer and manage all disclosures in a timely, consistent, and professional
manner.

e) To inspire confidence in all employees and other associated individuals to question and
raise concerns in the best interests of the Company.

f) To provide assurance that all disclosures will be taken seriously and fo reassure a
whistleblower for protection against all possible forms of reprisals or victimization.

3. Scope

“Whistleblowing” means disclosure of information by any employee or contractor or any person
where they reasonably believe that one or more of the following event(s) / matter(s) is / are
transpiring, or transpired in the past or is / are likely to transpire in the future:

 

1 Rule 5 (7) n of the Public Sector Companies (Corporate Governance) Rules, 2013

Page 2 of 8
PP SW

WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

e civil unlawful or criminal act;

® mismanagement of Company resources;

e any act detrimental to the interest or reputation of the Company or leading to a conflict of
interest situation;

e failure to comply with any legal and regulatory obligation;

e any act of fraud, theft or corruption;

e actual or potential improprieties in financial and other matters;

e Reporting incorrect financial data intentionally;

e Unauthorized / illegal use of sensitive corporate data; misuse or unauthorized disclosure
of confidential information;

e any violation of the Code, Policies, SOPs or applicable laws;

e any violation of applicable health, safety and environmental standards;

e unauthorized changes in the PSW systems and / or any of its allied components (by
whatever name called);

e any act that undermines the Company’s operations and objectives;

e deliberate concealment or any attempt to conceal any of the above referred event(s) /
matter(s).

* The above list of event(s) / matter(s) is not exhaustive
This Policy does not apply to employee’s career related issues such as promotions, increments,

transfers, relocations, trainings, etc. for which a grievance redressal mechanism in line with the
approved HR Policy may be used.

4. Policy Statement and Applicability

4.1 Any improper, unethical, or inappropriate behavior within the Company is unacceptable, and
this is supported and endorsed at the highest level.

4.2 This Policy applies to all stakeholders including employees, management, directors, vendors
(such as contractors, suppliers, consultants, agents with whom the Company has agreements in
place), customers and any person associated with the Company. The Company shall make this
policy known to all stakeholders.

4.3 All stakeholders are encouraged to disclosé and communicate any concerns relating to
ethical, safety, environmental or other possible breaches of compliance.

5. Protection and Support for the Whistleblower

5.1 The Company encourages openness and will support staff raising genuine concerns in good
faith under this Policy even if the claim turns out to be untrue or presumptuous except as provided
in Section 8.3 below.

Page 3 of 8

we
&PSW

WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

5.2 Complete confidentiality of whistleblowers shall be maintained, and they will be protected from
any form of retaliation or victimization for genuinely heid concerns that are raised in good faith.

6. Procedure

6.1 Any employee may raise any concern / complaint in writing with their line manager or a senior
manager in the department. The concerned line manager or the senior manager shail forward a
copy of the concern / complaint to the Chief Internal Auditor.

6.2 Any concern / complaint may be lodged directly with the Chief Internal Auditor in writing on
the Disclosure of Concern (Annexure A) or by calling on +92-51-9211127. Whistleblower will be
asked to formalize their concerns / complaint in writing either before or after the first meeting.
Alternatively, the concern / complaint may be lodged by using the independent “Speak Out” email
address speakout@psw.gov.pk.

6.3 Information listed below should be included in the concern / complaint as far as practicable:
e anoutline of the known or suspected wrongdoing;
e details about what, when, where and how it occurred;
e list of names of those suspected of being involved (both within or outside the Company);
e alist of the names of anyone who may have relevant information.

6.4 The whistleblower will not be expected to prove a suspected or actual wrongdoing. However,
the whistleblower will be expected to provide evidence to the Internal Audit Department if in case
the whistleblower is in possession of any proof / evidence relating to the suspected or actual
wrongdoing.

6.5 The Internal Audit Department will contact the whistleblower and may schedule a meeting if
required. Provided that complete confidentiality relating to the details of the whistleblower shall
always be maintained.

6.6 The whistleblower has the option of maintaining complete anonymity when reporting a
violation (whether suspected or actual). Anonymous complaints shall be considered at the
discretion of the Audit Committee upon recommendation of the Chief Internal Auditor keeping in
view the seriousness of the issues raised and likelihood of confirming the suspected or actual
violation from reliable sources. However, anonymous reporting is not encouraged as it makes
investigating the concern / complaint difficult.

7. Investigation of Disclosure

7.1 An initial assessment shall be conducted by the Internal Audit Department and a preliminary
report including recommendation of the Chief Internal Auditor will be presented to the Audit
Committee and the Chief Executive Officer as the case may be. The Audit Committee will decide
on the best course of action and whether an investigation is warranted, and the form it should
take keeping in view the seriousness of the issues raised and likelinood of confirming the

Ke Page 4 of 8
&,
wae PSW WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

suspected or actual violation from reliable sources. If an investigation is considered necessary,
an investigative team may be appointed by the Audit Committee including personnel with
experience of operating workplace procedures or specialist knowledge of the subject matter.

7.2 The purpose of the investigation is to:
e identify the root cause(s) of wrongdoing(s) / violation(s);
e establish if wrongdoing(s) / violation(s) have occurred, and if so to what extent; and
e minimize risk of further wrongdoing(s) / violation(s), prevent any further loss of assets,
damage to reputation and to protect ail sources of evidence by proposing corrective and
preventive controls.

7.3 The final investigation report that provides the findings, basis of findings, conclusion and
recommendations will be submitted to the Audit Committee for review and consideration. If an
investigation. concludes that an improper or unethical act has been committed, the Audit
Committee shall recommend appropriate disciplinary or corrective action as deemed appropriate
for approval of the Board. Where it is concluded that a criminal activity has taken place,
appropriate legal action may be initiated in accordance with the applicable legal framework upon
recommendation of the legal adviser / experts appointed by the Board in this regard. However, if
an investigation concludes that no improper or unethical act has been committed, Audit
Committee shall recommend to the Chief Executive Officer to communicate the same across the
Company to maintain reputation of the accused. °

7.4 If the whistleblower is not satisfied with the investigation or its conclusion, they may approach
the Chairman Board directly along with reasonable justifications.

8. Reporting in Good Faith

8.1 A whistleblower will be provided with complete protection for reporting any suspected or actual
violation if it is made in good faith and in the best interests of the Company.

8.2 If whistleblower believes that they are being subjected to a detriment within the workplace as
a result of raising concerns under this procedure, they should inform the Internal Audit Department
immediately. The Internal Audit Department will be authorized to take appropriate measures /
actions for protecting the whistleblower against any form of reprisal.

8.3 However, reporting of violation(s) with malicious intent or to cause distress, anger, or irritation
or on account of any personal rivalry will render the whistleblower liable to disciplinary action.

9. Record Keeping

9.1 Chief Internal Auditor will produce a quarterly report documenting all concerns and the actions
taken to resolve them for the review of the Audit Committee and the Chief Executive Officer as
the case may be as per Annexure B.

Page 5 of 8
PSW

WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

9.2 Records of all whistleblowing concerns, investigations and reports are to be retained for a
period of at least ten years.

10.Amendments

The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the Policy at any time.
Any changes to the Policy shall be reviewed and recommended by the Audit Committee for
approval by the Board of Directors.

11.Administration

The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the whistleblowing policy and protection
mechanism while the Chief Internal Auditor is responsible for the implementation of the Policy
and matters incidental thereto. The Board of Directors of the Company also commits to support
the Audit Committee in managing the policy, as far as practicable, for the best interest of its
varying stakeholders.

Page 6 of 8
PS

aOR AES Re wEDL WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

 

 

Annexure A

Disclosure of Concern

Instructions: This form must be submitted to the Chief Internal Auditor for reporting concerns / complaints
in line with the Whistleblowing Policy.

 

Policy / Procedure Reference | Date of Occurrence _ Location of Occurrence

/ Wrongdoing: Provide an outline of the known or suspected wrongdoing.

 

Detailed Description: Describe the occurrence; mention what happened, where it happened, when it happened,
how the occurrence was discovered, name and designation of all the people involved (whether internal or external),
any other relevant details. State facts only. Avoid opinion and judgement.

 

| Names: List names of those suspected of being involved (both within and outside the Company).

 

 

Relevant information: Provide a list of the names of anyone who may have relevant information.

 

 

 

 

Initiator Information (Optional but preferred; will be kept confidential as far as is reasonably practicable).

Name Signature Date
Internal Audit Signature Date
Note: This document shail be retained in original with the Internal Audit Department. ca

Page 7 of 8
WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

&PSW

 

Annexure B

Quarterly Report on Whistleblowing concerns / complaints to the Audit Committee and the Chief
Executive Officer

 

 

 

Name of Nature of Against Total Amount | Outcome of Comments on
Whistleblower | violation(s) (Name of involved in the probe or | Whistleblower
employee) violation(s) investigation | protection
| (PKR) _ |
—
| | |

 

 

Page 8 of 8
