
info@psw.gov.pk

© www.psw.gov.pk

q& Ph: +92 51 9245605

@ PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

  
 
  
 
     
    

LEAVE POLICY

Reference: LP/POL/v2-23
Document Version: 2

      

Custodian Human Resource Department

Maintaining and Implementation | Chief Human Resource Officer
Responsibility

Effective Date BoD Approval Date

Next Review Date After Every Two Years

 
 

 
       

   

   
   
   
  
   
   

 

Prepared by Reviewed by

 

Name: ACA AQ) -

 
 
   

    

Confidential Information: The information provided in this document is
intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this document may not be
reproduced or divulged to any third party without the express written
permission of PSW.
wee PSW LEAVE POLICY

4. Introduction

This policy has been designed to create a clear and comprehensive framework for managing
employee leaves in a fair and consistent manner. At PSW, we recognize the importance of
maintaining a healthy work-life balance for our employees, as well as addressing their personal
and professional needs. This policy outlines the various types of leaves available to employees,
the procedures for requesting and approving leaves, and the responsibilities of both employees
and the management regarding leave management.

2. Objective

The primary objective of the Employee Leave Policy is to establish a balanced approach to leave
management that considers both employee well-being and operational requirements. By
achieving these objectives, we strive to create a workplace culture that values its employees
and fosters a harmonious relationship between work commitments and personal lives.

3. Scope

The scope of the Leave Policy encompasses the guidelines, rules, and procedures related to
employee absences from work, whether for vacation, sick days, parental leave, or other forms of
time off. This policy outlines how employees can request and be granted leave, the types of leave
available, the documentation required, the approval process, and any specific conditions or
limitations. Additionally, it addresses issues related to leave accrual, leave encashment and the
company’s stance on unpaid leave.

4. Definitions

e Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

e Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who will be responsible
for the management of PSW and the implementation of its policies and procedures in financial
and other matters, subject to oversight and directions of the Board.

e CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer, the Head of the Human Resource Department.

e C-suite Executive means the top tier of the company management comprising the Chief
Technology Officer, Chief Domain Officer, Chief Security Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Internal Auditor, Chief Human Resources Officer, Chief Communications Officer, Company
Secretary, and the Chief Executive Officer.

e Officers on Deputation means Government officers temporarily deputed in PSW.

e¢ BHRC means Board of Directors subcommittee for Human Resource
ESS means Employee Self Service of the Human Resource Management System

5. Applicability

This policy applies to all employees of PSW, including Permanent and Fixed term contract
employees, and officers on deputation.

6. Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board of Directors or the respective
subcommittee of the Board (BHRC) on its behalf. >

st
PSW

PRET il HE ey

LEAVE POLICY

7. General Guidelines

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

f)

g)

h)

k)

Leave year commences from July 1 and ends on June 30.

Employees are required to submit the Leave Application in advance. In case of any
emergency or Sick Leave the employees should seek approval from supervisor and intimate
the Human Resource Department about their absence. They MUST submit the Leave
Application Form on their return through ESS portal.

Any leave which has not been applied through ESS portal after 03 working days/payroll
cut off date will be considered as leave without pay.

All scheduled leaves need to be jointly agreed upon, considering both workloads and the
employee's requirements. The employee’s HOD retains the authority to decline or partially
approve leave requests as per the business requirements.

In the same way, a granted leave can be revoked and / or an employee on leave can be
recalled before the expiry of the leave period; and in such cases, leave balance of the
employee will be readjusted to reflect the change.

Leave of absence for two days or more should be submitted at least 24 hours prior to the
time from which leave is required except in cases of sickness and emergency.

Employees desiring to obtain more than two weeks leave must submit their application
through ESS portal at least two weeks before the requested date of commencement of
leave. However, exceptions may apply.

An employee who remains absent more than the leave period approved shall be liable for
disciplinary action unless he/she is able to explain his/her position vis-a-vis the over-stay
and the supervisor is satisfied with the explanation.

Weekends gazetted and public holidays do not constitute part of any type of leave (annual,
casual, sick or maternity, etc.), and will not be debited as such either.

Any two types of leave cannot be availed consecutively unless it is approved by the HOD
in advance. In case sick leave is followed by annual or casual leave, leave may be granted
if the employee intimates his/her HOD on time, and HOD approves it as genuine.

An employee can avail maximum 02 casual leaves at a time. If the no of leaves exceed from
02 days, it will be considered as Annual Jeave and will be deducted accordingly from the
portal.

An employee can extend his/her leaves by submitting the request through the ESS portal
to the line manager before the expiry of his/her ongoing leaves.

7.1 Leave Obtaining Procedure and Record Maintenance

a)

Before obtaining HOD’s signature, employee must verify leave balance through ESS.

b) Human Resources Department shall be responsible for accurately record

leaves/attendance ofall employees through HRMS.

> .

ok
6
“ne PSW LEAVE POLICY

c) Itis the responsibility of each employee and Line Managers/HODs to properly report leave
and submit required leave through ESS.

d) The employee’s HOD is responsible for the accuracy of leave reported which he/she
approves. However, the records maintained by the HR department on ESS shall be
considered as official leave record for the employee.

7.2 Type of leaves

Leave admissible under the policy has been categorized as follows:

i. Annual Leave

ii, Casual Leave

iii. Sick Leave

iv. Maternity Leave

v. Paternity Leave

vi. Leave Without Pay
vil. Hajj/Umrah Leave
vill. Bereavement Leave

ix. | Compensatory Leave

Refer to Annexure - A for leave details.
8. Information Fiow and Reports

All data shall be maintained by the HR department. Key statistics shall be shared with the CEO,
and other members of the C-Suite on need basis.

9. Compliance

The CHRO is to ensure compliance with this policy. Intentional deviation from this policy will
be considered unacceptable from both a compliance and Code of Conduct perspective.

40. Amendments
The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any

time. Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the respective subcommittee
of the Board BHRC and approved by the Board of Directors.

41. Administration

This policy shall be administered by the HR department.

Ri
*
ig PSW LEAVE POLICY

A htiane ip, 1, Te ie

ANNEXURE - A
i. Annual Leave
a) Employees are entitled to 20 working days of paid annual leave.

b) The leave is accumulated on a pro-rata basis but can only be entitled after successful
completion of probation period.

c) All leaves will be calculated based on fiscal year (July 01 through June 30). For the purposes
of calculation of the leave entitlement, an employee joining before the 15th of the month
will be entitled to 1.66 days leave for that month and the one joining between 15th and
20th shall be entitled to one day while those joining after 20th shall not be entitled to any
leave.

d) It is the responsibility of Line HOD to ensure that appropriate measures are being taken to
permit each employee to take a regular vacation each year. All employees should be
granted sufficient continuous leave to provide an adequate period of rest and recuperation
consistent with work requirements.

e) Leave must be approved by the employee's HOD in writing/official email and reported for
record keeping purpose to Human Resource Department.

f) Annual leave can be availed anytime during the year. It must be approved by the HOD at
least two weeks in advance. However, exceptional and emergency cases can be
entertained.

g) In case where previously approved and scheduled annual leaves are cancelled by the
employee's HOD due to work requirements, they will be restored to the employee's
account. In case of exigency of work, the company may however recall the employee on
duty before the expiry of sanctioned leave.

h) No leave shall be earned during the period spent on leave without pay by an employee.

i) All permanent employees are eligible to apply for leave encashment. Only unused annual
leaves can be encashed in a single year.

ii. Casual Leave

a) At the beginning of each leave year, employees will be credited with 10 working days of
causal leave.

b) An employee who enters into employment after the beginning of leave year will receive a
prorated amount of casual leave for the remainder of the year. Casual leave can be availed
anytime during the year, although prior approval of such leave must be obtained from the
employee's line manager or designated authority, however, in case of emergency the
imitation should be done on the day of arrival.

c) Any casual leaves not used during the leave year cannot be taken over to next year.

d) If the employee fails to take prior approval for casual leave, he/she must seek approval
from his/her line manager through ESS on the day he/she is unable to attend the office.

x
< PSW

saentinse LEAVE POLICY

e) An employee leaving before 2:00 pm and entering office after 12 noon will submit half day
casual leave through ESS.

iii. Sick Leave
a) Sick leave shall be granted on account of sickness, ill health, injuries and conditions
demanding medical treatment or attention. Application shall be submitted immediately on

resumption of duties.

b) Atthe beginning of each leave year, employees will be credited with 10 working days of sick
leave.

c) An employee who enters a contract after the beginning of the leave year will receive a
prorated amount of sick leave for the remainder of the year.

d) In case an employee suffers from prolonged illness and has no entitlement of sick/annual
leave to the credit then the employee may be allowed, subject to the recommendation of
HOD and medical officer/physician. Employees who have completed a minimum of 08
months of service with the company are eligible for special sick leave with pay, upto a
maximum of 30 days, which can be availed once during their tenure.

iv. Maternity Leave

a) Paid maternity leave shall be allowed for a period of 180 days at one stretch on first birth,
120 days on second birth and ninety days on third birth, starting earlier or on the date of
arrival of the new family member.

b) The female employee shall submit a formal documented request.

c) While on maternity leave, the employee will continue to receive full salary and allowances.

d) Maternity leave is allowed only thrice during an employees’ entire service.

e) This leave is allowed only to the permanent employees.

f) HOD will forward the leave request to HR for final approval.

g) In case of an unfortunate event of stillbirth or miscarriage, 04 weeks paid leave will be
accorded, not adjusted from medical or annual time-off.

h) Employee shall inform her line manager 12 weeks before estimated date of delivery to
prepare for handover.

v. Paternity Leave

a) Paid paternity leave shall be allowed for a period of 30 working days at one stretch from
the date of joining the company.

b) The male employee shall submit a formal documented request.
c) While on paternity leave, the employee will continue to receive full salary and allowances.

e) Paternity leave is allowed only thrice during an employee’s entire service. st
PSW

f)

LEAVE POLICY

This leave is allowed only for permanent employees.

g) HOD will forward the leave request to HR for final approval.

vi.

a)

b)

vil.

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

viii.

Leave Without Pay

Permanent employees may be authorized to take leave without pay based on the discretion
of the HOD and the CHRO when casual and annual leaves have already been consumed.
Under exceptional circumstances, the duration of such leave without pay should not surpass
30 days per instance. If an employee seeks leave without pay exceeding 30 days, the
respective department head should present the request to the CEO through the CHRO for
approval.

No pay or allowances shall be admissible during the period of such leaves. The period spent
on such leaves beyond 30 days shall not count for increment or any company benefit.

Hajj/Umrah Leave

All permanent employees with at least one (01) year of full-time continuous service with
PSW who plan to perform their Hajj/Umrah are entitled to paid leave. The maximum limit
for Hajj leaves is 35 working days. Permanent employees performing Umrah are to get a
maximum leave of 15 working days.

Hajj leaves can be availed just once during tenure of employment with PSW. Umrah leaves
can be availed twice during tenure of employment with PSW. However, both types of leaves
cannot be availed in same calendar year.

A leave request must be submitted through ESS at least one month in advance, which needs
to be approved by HOD.

The CEO through CHRO is to give final approval of the Hajj/Umrah leave.

The employee shall submit the Copy of their Passport with Visa and Air Ticket to Human
Resource Department.

Bereavement Leave

Bereavement leave is time off to attend the funeral and otherwise fulfill the social
obligations associated with the death of a close family member, defined as a parent, child,
spouse, sibling,or parent-in-law. The employee should apply leaves through ESS as soon as
possible after the death, and upon returning to work, he/she is responsible for approval
through ESS. Employees are granted a leave period of 7 working days.

Compensatory Leave

Compensatory Leave is permissible for permanent employees who work for over six hours
on a weekly basis or on a public holiday officially declared by the Government of Pakistan.
The Head of Department (HOD) is required to provide a valid rationale for assigning an
employee to work on such holidays. For each day worked on a weekly, festival, or Gazetted
holiday, one substitute holiday will be granted at a mutually convenient time as per
operational needs.
xi.

xii.

a)

b)

xiii.

a)

b)

LEAVE POLICY

Leave Fare Assistance

Leave Fare Assistance allowance (vacation bonus) will be paid to an employee if he/ she
avails 10 days of leave from their annual leave balance in leave year. This allowance will be
equal to employee's half basic salary and shall be paid once ina year. Allowance is eligible
only if the leave is taken in the same financial year.

Leave Encashment

Encashment of leave during employment tenure is allowed subject to a maximum balance
of 10 annual leaves at the end of leave year. If an employee has more than 10 leaves in
his/herbalance at the end of leave year, all leaves above 10 days will be lapsed and
remaining days will be encashed.

If an employee resigns or is terminated, the entire remaining balance of annual leave will
either be fully converted to monetary compensation or utilized to offset any incomplete
notice period (subject to approval by the Head of Department). To determine the value of
one day's salary for the purpose of calculating annual leave encashment, the current gross
salary will be annualized (multiplied by 12) and then divided by 365. This computation will
yield the value of one day's salary.

Unauthorized absence

Absence without formal approval or intimation or overstaying a leave period without
information or prior approval, could be treated as leave without pay if the employee is unable
to provide valid reason after resuming office. A prolonged (3 working days or more)
unauthorized absence from duty could result in disciplinary action including deduction from
pay and/or termination of service.

Employees taking leave are required to return according to the dates otherwise the normal
disciplinary penalties will apply such as a formal written warning and loss of pay for the
days the employee was not present at work.
