
info@psw.gov.pk
WWW. psw.gov.pk
Ph: +92 51 9245605

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

Reference: PP/POL/v1-23

Document Version: 1

Custodian Human Resource Department

Maintaining and Implementation | Chief Human Resource Officer
Responsibility

Effective Date BoD Approval Date
Next Review Date After Every Two Years
Prepared by Reviewed by

Signature: we? Signature: JAAS
Name On. Mord Name: ign oan

Designation: )\ . . Uowsrev Designation:

       
 

   
 
   
     
   

      
 
     

 

Confidential Information: The information provided in this document is
intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this document may not
be reproduced or divulged to any third party without the express written
permission of PSW.

 
PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

 

 

1. Introduction

Pakistan’s IT sector has shown exponential growth in the past couple of decades and has the
potential to bring in more revenue by providing IT services to countries all around the globe.
According to an estimation shared in 2020, Pakistan’s information technology sector has the
potential to increase its exports by $10 billion in the next three years. The sector employs
over 100,000 people and, according to the study, 29% of them are women, The technology
sector has the need and opportunities for all kinds of people, from all genders, backgrounds,
and exposures and we need to work on making it more inclusive and welcoming for everyone.
This will not only bring more revenue but will also create the space for more innovative
products and services that can be offered to both local and overseas customers.

2. Objective

At PSW “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion” (D, E & I) are an integral part of the company's
culture. We are committed to providing a workplace culture that generates equal
opportunities, assuring people are treated right with dignity and respect. We also put our
efforts to strengthen this inclusive culture which means that all the employees must be
treated equally irrespective of their biological or claimed gender, caste, color, religion,
exposure, abilities, etc.

Furthermore, it implies hiring more diverse people in the team without being hindered by
any unconscious biases and ensuring that they have equal opportunities both in terms of
monetary/non-monetary to perform in a conducive work environment.

Through this Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Policy, we aim to create a culture that
embraces individual differences, promotes equal opportunities, and actively combats
discrimination and bias in all its forms.

3. Scope

The purpose of this document is to establish a clear vision, direction, common language and
highlight guiding principles to achieve desired results. PSW sees gender equality and
inclusion as critical to its mission, women, alongside men, are essential participants and
contributors finding and sharing effective and lasting solutions which will make results
resilient.

e Leverage our employees’ unique skills, values, background and experiences, which
will assist with understanding our customer needs.

e Develop an inclusive work environment, so each employee can show their full
potential, regardless of their background, gender, age, work status, marital status,
religious or cultural identity.

e Demonstrate best practices on Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.

/ Page 2 of 8
Sahar Fm akan fe Ora ae

PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

 

4.

Vi.
VII.

VIII.

XL.

XIL.

Definitions

Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

BHRC means the HR committee of Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who will be
responsible for the management of PSW and the implementation of its policies and
procedures in financial and other matters, subject to oversight and directions of the Board.
CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer who is the Head of the Human Resource
Department.

HoD means the designated Head of Department reporting to a C-suite executive.

People Manager means an employee who has other employee(s) reporting into him.
Gender refers to the social attributes and opportunities associated with being male and
female and the relationships among and between women, men, girls and boys.

Gender Equality refers to equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities of women, men,
girls and boys.

Gender Mainstreaming is the process of assessing the implications for women and men of
any planned action including legislation, policies or programs, in any area and at all levels.
Diversity refers to all the ways in which people differ, including primary characteristics,
such as age, race, gender, ethnicity, mental and physical abilities, and secondary
characteristics, such as nationality, education, income, religion, work, experience, language
skills, geographic location, cultural background, family status, communication style,
learning style, economic background, and work style.

Equity emphasizes fair treatment, access to opportunities, and outcomes for all individuals,
considering the unique challenges and barriers faced by historically disadvantaged groups.
This involves addressing systemic inequalities and striving to eliminate biases and
discriminatory practices within the organization's policies, practices, and decision-making
processes.

Inclusion refers to creating a work environment and culture where all differences are
valued, respected and leveraged. Everyone has the opportunity to learn, develop,
contribute and achieve in the workplace.

Applicability
The policy applies to all employees of the company.
. Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board of Directors or the

respective subcommittee of the Board (BHRC) on its behalf.

Policy Statement

To achieve our mission and vision, PSW considers its human capital to be its most valuable

asset. Considering our technological infrastructure and the nature of our business, PSW
has a workforce that is reflective of our country's demographic diversity. We believe that
the sum of the individual differences, life experiences, knowledge, innovation, self-
expression, unique capabilities and talent that our employees invest in their work is a

Page 3 of 8
< PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

RAF NE

 

 

 

significant part of not only our culture, but also our reputation and company's
achievements.

We recognize that building a diverse and inclusive workplace will result in enhanced
relationships with stakeholders, lead to better customer service, improved financial
performance and a stronger corporate reputation.

We are, therefore, constantly trying to foster, cultivate and preserve a culture of diversity,
inclusion and belonging.

PSW’s diversity and inclusion initiatives are applicable to the activities of all departments
at the organization. Creating an inclusive culture is a shared responsibility of all
employees.

The HR department serves as an enabler to create an environment where the employees:
e Feel safe at all times,
e Are engaged,
e Have equitable opportunities to grow and
e Eventuaily lead within the organization.

8. General Guidelines

PSW is committed to promoting gender equality throughout the organisation, which is
reflected in all of its initiatives and programmes. The organisation acknowledges that in
our societies, prejudiced stereotypes and social conventions prevent women and men
from exercising their freedom of choice and from taking full and equal advantage of
opportunities for personal growth, contribution, and reward.

The following areas are the cornerstones of our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (D, E, &)
Policy.

Diverse Talent Pools

We want to attract, develop and retain people with different perspectives, experiences
and backgrounds to support us in our strategic journey.

We have the following expectations from our Hiring Managers/People Managers/HR
team w.r.t the talent we acquire and develop at PSW.

e Managers will actively seek a diverse pool of candidates for the job postings in
terms of gender, ethnicity, social background and/or other characteristics of
diversity.

e Managers will proactively work on eradicating conscious and unconscious bias
during the interview process in order to provide a fair chance to the candidates.

e Managers will make a conscious effort to make a hiring choice that will bring
diversity to their existing team.

Page 4 of 8

Ly
FOR Re Rh BE

 PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

 

e Managers will make an effort to understand the existing members of their team
and know about characteristics that may require special facilitation in day-to-day
matters.

e An infrastructure support network is important e.g., when hiring differently abled
people, we ensure that the building is equipped with facilities to accommodate
the employee, assuring the system conditions and items related are delivered on
time to promote hassle free onboarding. Additionally, there are separate
designated restrooms & prayer areas for female employees.

Inclusive Leadership

Inclusion is a potent innovation and growth multiplier that stimulates creativity and
inspiration. At PSW, we are committed to inclusive leadership in which our leaders
empower our employees to achieve their highest professional and personal potential.

We have the following expectations from our People Managers in terms of their
leaderships.

e Managers will learn to manage diverse teams and resources. They will make
conscious efforts to understand the requirements of each member of their
teams and make provisions to ensure everyone is safe, engaged and has
opportunities to perform at their most optimum potential.

e Managers will build personal capacity in dealing with diverse opinions in a
discussion. They will learn to value differences of opinion and encourage
everyone to contribute.

e Managers will seek active guidance in improving their behavior towards their
team members and will act as a role model towards other members of the team.

All employees can seek assistance of the HR department for interventions should a
person require help in building capacity in any measure of D, E, &I.

Equal Opportunities

PSW aims to create equal access to opportunity regardless of social identity. Only by
acknowledging and harvesting from different perspectives and experiences, will we
gain competitive advantage and leverage the effect of diversity for business growth.
This requires a focus on equal opportunity throughout the organization.

We will regularly review our internal practices to ensure our policies and processes are
fair and unbiased. We aim to provide equitable assistance to our employees - based on
their needs and requirements rather than their gender and social identity.

Similarly, all employees of the PSW have a responsibility to always treat others with
dignity and respect. All employees are expected to exhibit conduct that reflects
inclusion during work, at work functions on or off the work site, and at all other
company sponsored and participative events.

Page 5 of 8
- PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

Sha Fa ge eT

Employee Engagement and Development:

We will continue to encourage and support employee engagement initiatives that
celebrate and promote diversity and inclusion. This would include but not limited to
ongoing training, education, and professional development opportunities to enhance
employees’ understanding of diversity and inclusion issues and build inclusive
leadership skills.

Gender Mainstreaming:

At PSW, we are committed to the principles of gender mainstreaming, recognizing the
importance of considering gender perspectives in all our policies, practices, and
decision-making processes. We acknowledge that gender equality is essential for
fostering an inclusive and equitable work environment.

We strive to integrate a gender lens into our organizational culture, initiatives, and
programs to ensure that the experiences and needs of both women and men are
properly addressed. This involves assessing the implications of our actions, policies, and
programs on gender equality at all levels within the organization.

Women Representation

PSW believes that gender diversity is not just about increasing the number of female
employees but is about ensuring their representation and due participation at all the
hierarchical levels within the organization. Thereby, PSW ensures that its female
employees are engaged in all strategic and operational decision-making processes.

Equitable Working Environment

Working women, in particular working mothers, are expected to manage dual roles as
mothers as well as career professionals and can face challenges in maintaining work-
life balance. Understanding the requirements of working mothers, PSW strives to
ensure that an equitable working environment is created whereby:
e Women employees are enabled to manage their professional responsibilities
with ease and flexibility without compromising their personal obligations; and
e Employment-related decisions are based purely on professional merit and do
not take into account matters related to personal life such as maternity,
childcare etc.

Conducive Working Environment

PSW firmly believes that harassment by any means of action creates an intimidating,
hostile or offensive environment which is neither safe nor respectful. PSW resolves to
ensure to provide dignified, venerable and conducive working environment particularly
for its female employees against any such acts.

Page 6 of 8

bd
“Me PS DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

WR A tm OBR

 

 

In a Workplace environment, harassment is characterized by any or all the following
three significant aspects:

a. Abuse of Authority
A demand by a person in authority, such as supervisor, for inappropriate advances for
the employee to keep or obtain certain job benefits, be it a wage increase, a promotion,
training opportunity, a transfer or the job itself.

b. Creating a Hostile Environment
Any unwelcome, inappropriate advances or other verbal or physical conduct of such
nature, which interferes with an individual’s work performance or creates a hostile work
environment.

c. Retaliation

The refusal to grant favor of the inappropriate advances can result in retaliation, which
may include limiting the employee’s options for future promotions or training, distorting
the evaluation reports, generating gossip against the employee or other ways of limiting
access to his/her rights. Such behavior is also a part of harassment.

The employee may directly or through the line manager report the incident informally
to HR team.

The employee may also make a formal complaint through their line manager or directly
to the authority/Inquiry Committee, who may initiate the process of investigation.

PSW encourages its employees to report any perceived harassment without fear of
reprisal or breach of confidentiality, to an adequate level of authority and ensures that
their complaints will be heard and will be subjected to an objective investigation process
and actions will be taken to rectify the situation, if required.

Accountability and Reporting:

PSW holds all employees, including People managers, HODs and C-suite members,
accountable for upholding our D, E, & | policy. Any incidents of discrimination,
harassment, or bias are taken seriously and will be promptly investigated and
appropriately addressed. We maintain confidential reporting channels and non-
retaliation policies to ensure that individuals can report concerns without fear of
reprisal.

9. Roles and Responsibilities

The HR department shall be responsible for ensuring diversity and inclusion. By
developing a transparent monitoring and evaluation mechanism within the organization
and its activities, the application of lessons learned is an ongoing exercise.

Page 7 of 8
aR Sa ee

 PSW DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION POLICY

 

10. Information flows and reports
List of all activities shall be placed before the BHRC on semiannual basis.
11. Compliance

The HR department is the custodian of “Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (D, E, & I} policy
and is responsible for regular review their policies, practices, and initiatives to ensure they
remain effective and aligned with evolving best practices and legal requirements. This
may involve conducting internal audits, seeking external assessments or certifications,
and actively seeking feedback from employees and stakeholders.

12. Scope Limitation
None except as mentioned above.
13. Amendments
The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at

any time. Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the HRC and
approved by the Board of Directors.

Page 8 of 8
