Management Trainee Officer (MTO) program is widely adopted by leading organizations and has become a standard feature in the corporate sector. The idea is to bring fresh talent, latest ideas, mold and develop newly graduated potential resources as per organizational requirements.

Purpose / Objectives

Management Trainee Officers are brought into an organization primarily with two objectives: to get them trained by giving them an immersive learning experience and preparing them for future roles. Additionally, these MTOs become a readily available reserve pool for any emergent requirements. The experience gained and training provided throughout this program will be invaluable, equipping candidates with a comprehensive view of the business as well as its needs.

Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be approved or endorsed by the Board.

MTO Policy & Procedure

All positions of MTO will be advertised on the company’s website, job portals, professional networking pages, etc.
MTOs batch will be taken onboard twice a year.
At no time shall the total number of MTOs exceed 20 company-wide.
After the closing date, HR department will shortlist the candidates as per the eligibility criteria for the Assessments/ screening tests.
After the screening test, candidates will be selected for an interview based on multiple criteria.
HR department will conduct the interviews and select the most suitable trainees.
MTOs will be inducted for a period of 01 year with no extension whatsoever.
Only fresh graduates having bachelor's/masters degrees from recognized universities with a minimum CGPA of 2.5 are eligible.
MTOs will be required to work from 9 am to 5 pm, Monday to Friday.
Management Trainees will be entitled to a fixed salary of Rs. 50,000 per month.
During the one-year period of training program, MTOs will be entitled to 10 working days of Annual Leave.
All MTOs will be covered under the group life and health insurance scheme of PSW.
Conversion from MTO to employment is the goal of this program.
MTOs will abide by the company’s code of conduct and all other relevant disciplinary policies.
The Head of HR & Admin is responsible for ensuring compliance with this policy.
The company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time.
Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the Human Resources Department.