2
1. lntroduction
4.2.
4.3.
4.4.
Management Trainee Officer (MTO) program is widely adopted by leading organizations and has
becomeastandardfeatureincorporater..tor.th"ideaistobringfreshtalent,latestideas,mold
and develop newly graduated potential resources as per organizational requirements'
Purpose / Objectives
ManagementtraineeofficersarebroughtintoanorBanizationprimarilyWithtwoobjectives;one
intentistogetthemtrainedbygivingthemanimmersivelearnlngexperienceandprepareforfuture
roles; two these MTO beco.e . readily available reserve pool for any emergent requirements The
experiencegainedandtrainingprovidedthroughoutthisprogramwillbeinvaluable,equipping
candidates with a comprehensive view of the business as well as its needs'
Exceptions
Any exception to this policy needs to be approved/endorsed by the Board'
MTO PolicY & Procedure
4.7. All positions of MTO will be advertised on company's website, job portals, professional
4.5.
4.6.
networking Pages, etc.
MTOS batch will be taken onboard twice a year
At no time shallthe total number of MTOs exceed 20 company wide
After the closing date, HR department will shortlist the candidates as per the eligibllity criteria
for the Assessments/ screening tests'
Afterthescreeningtest,candidateswillbeselectedforinterviewinorderofrating/score.
HRdepartmentwillconductthelnterviewsandselectmostsuitabletralneesbasedon
rnrnipf".rit"ri. but not limited to attitude, personality' communication' education' etc'
MTO POLICY
3
4
5. Duration:
MTOs will be inducted for a period of 01 year with no extension whatsoever'
5.
7. Working Hours & DaYs:
MTOS will be required to work from gam to 5pm, Monday to Friday
Eligibility Criteria:
Only fresh graduates having bachelors/masters degree in any discipline from a recognized
L..t/tor"ign-Unirersity with a minimum of 2'5 CGPA are eligible to apply for MTO program'
Page 2 of 4
.:;r PSW
7
.:!rPSW
MTO POLICY
8. Salary:
Management Trainees will be entitled to a fixed salary of Rs' 50'000 per month
9. Leaves:
Duringtheone-yearperiodoftrainingprogramMToswillbeentitledforloworkingdaysofAnnual
Leave
10. Life and Health lnsurance:
11. Advancement:
12. Miscellaneous:
conversionfromMTotoemploymentisthegoalofthisprogram.Aftersuccessfulcompletionofol-
year program, based on Hoo reiommendation, and on availability of vacant position at intermediate
ievet (O-i), MTo will be converted to a full-time employment with PSW'
12.1.
L2.2.
t2.3.
72.4
L2.5
MTOs who have Completed minimum 6 months of service are eligible to apply for a vacant
position.
MToswillabidebythecompany,scodeofconductandallotherrelevantdisciplinarypolicy.
lncaseofdisciplineissues,trainingprogramwillbeimmediatelyterminatedwithoutgiving
any notice or stipend in lieu.
Upon completion of MTO program, MTO will be awarded with a certificate from HR
departmeni suulect to submissio-n of report covering experience and skills gained, difficulties
encountered, suggestions for improvement and etc'
MToswillnotbeentitledtoanyotherbenefits/allowancesotherthanthosementionedin
this policy.
13. Compliance
The Head of HR & Admin to ensure the compliance of this Policy. lntentional deviation from this policy
will be considered as unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective'
14. Amendments
The company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time Any
changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the respective HRC and approved by the Board
of Directors.
All MTOs will be covered under the group life and health insurance scheme of PSW'
t
Page 3 of 4
.::i PSW
MTO POLICY
15. Administration
This Policy shall be administered by the Human Resources Department
Page 4 of 4

C info@psw.gov.pk
% PSW
PARISTAN SINGLE WINDOW @ www. psw.gov.pk
&, Ph: +92 51 9245605
Q PSW Head office, NTC

Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

  
  
 
 
   

MANAGEMENT TRAINEE OFFICER (MTO)
POLICY

Reference: MTO/v1-2022

Document Version: 1.0

Human Resources Department

Maintaining and Implementation Head of HR & Admin
Responsibility

Effective Date

Next Review Date After Every Two Years

 

     

Prepared by

  

Reviewed by

Signature:

| T7/

Name: Usman Ma Lb Name: (Iman Beshir
mom ed de § dla

     
   

Signature:

|

gS<—EEA
hhoe

 
  
 
    

  

    

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged outside the intended
organizations without the express written permission of PSW.
- PSW MTO POLICY

 

1.

Introduction

Management Trainee Officer (MTO) program is widely adopted by leading organizations and has
become a standard feature in corporate sector. The idea is to bring fresh talent, latest ideas, mold
and develop newly graduated potential resources as per organizational requirements.

Purpose / Objectives

Management trainee Officers are brought into an organization primarily with two objectives; one
intent is to get them trained by giving them an immersive learning experience and prepare for future
roles; two these MTO become a readily available reserve pool for any emergent requirements. The
experience gained and training provided throughout this program will be invaluable, equipping
candidates with a comprehensive view of the business as well as its needs.

Exceptions
Any exception to this policy needs to be approved/endorsed by the Board.
MTO Policy & Procedure

4.1. All positions of MTO will be advertised on company’s website, job portals, professional
networking pages, etc.

4.2. MTOs batch will be taken onboard twice a year

4.3. At no time shall the total number of MTOs exceed 20 company wide

4.4. After the closing date, HR department will shortlist the candidates as per the eligibility criteria
for the Assessments/ screening tests.

4.5. After the screening test, candidates will be selected for interview in order of rating/score.

4.6. HR department will conduct the interviews and select most suitable trainees based on
multiple criteria but not limited to attitude, personality, communication, education, etc.

Duration:

MTOs will be inducted for a period of 01 year with no extension whatsoever.

Eligibility Criteria:

Only fresh graduates having bachelors/masters degree in any discipline from a recognized
local/foreign University with a minimum of 2.5 CGPA are eligible to apply for MTO program.

Working Hours & Days:

MTOs will be required to work from 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday

<a?

Page 2 of 4
<< PSW MTO POLICY

 

10.

11.

iz.

13.

14.

Salary:
Management Trainees will be entitled to a fixed salary of Rs. 50,000 per month.
Leaves:

During the one-year period of training program MTOs will be entitled for 10 working days of Annual
Leave.

Life and Health Insurance:
All MTOs will be covered under the group life and health insurance scheme of PSW.

Advancement:

Conversion from MTO to employment is the goal of this program. After successful completion of 01-
year program, based on HOD recommendation, and on availability of vacant position at intermediate
level (G-1), MTO will be converted to a full-time employment with PSW.

Miscellaneous:

12.1. _MTOs who have completed minimum 6 months of service are eligible to apply for a vacant
position.

12.2. _MTOs will abide by the company’s code of conduct and all other relevant disciplinary policy.

12.3. Incase of discipline issues, training program will be immediately terminated without giving
any notice or stipend in lieu.

12.4. Upon completion of MTO program, MTO will be awarded with a certificate from HR
department subject to submission of report covering experience and skills gained, difficulties
encountered, suggestions for improvement and etc.

12.5. MTOs will not be entitled to any other benefits/allowances other than those mentioned in
this policy.

Compliance

The Head of HR & Admin to ensure the compliance of this Policy. Intentional deviation from this policy
will be considered as unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective.

Amendments
The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time. Any

changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the respective HRC and approved by the Board
of Directors.

Page 3 of 4
<< PSW MTO POLICY

 

15. Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the Human Resources Department.

a

Page 4 of 4
