WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY

1. Introduction

Pakistan Single Window (“the Company”) is committed to conduct its operations with honesty and
integrity. The Company is dedicated to conduct its affairs and working with all stakeholders
including employees, suppliers, customers, and contractors in a manner which is lawful, ethically
responsible and reflects the Company's values. Towards this end, PSW has adopted the General
Code of Conduct (“the Code”), which lays down the principles and standards that should govern
the actions of the Company and its employees. All members of staff are expected to maintain
high standards in accordance with the applicable laws and the Code.

In pursuance of the applicable Laws, Regulations, Rules and the Code, any actual or potential
violation of the Code, howsoever insignificant or perceived as such, would be a matter of serious
concern for the Company. Since the role of the employees in pointing out such violations cannot
be undermined, consequently, a Whistleblowing Policy and Protection Mechanism is being
developed.’

The Policy encourages employees or contractors or any person to report promptly suspected
occurrence(s) of any unethical, illegal or inappropriate event without retribution in order to prevent
them in future. The whistleblowing protection mechanism encourages and enables all concerned
to raise concerns within the Company rather than overlooking a problem or ‘blowing the whistle’
outside.

2. Purpose

a) To ensure that all cases of suspected wrongdoing and misconduct are reported and
managed in a timely and appropriate manner.

b) To encourage identification and reporting of all improper or unethical or inappropriate
behavior at all levels of the Company.

c) To provide clear procedures for reporting such matters in a confidential manner and taking
corrective measures.

d) To administer and manage all disclosures in a timely, consistent, and professional
manner.

e) To inspire confidence in all employees and other associated individuals to question and
raise concerns in the best interests of the Company.

f) To provide assurance that all disclosures will be taken seriously and to reassure a
whistleblower for protection against all possible forms of reprisals or victimization.

3. Scope

“Whistleblowing” means disclosure of information by any employee or contractor or any person
where they reasonably believe that one or more of the following event(s) / matter(s) is / are
transpiring, or transpired in the past or is / are likely to transpire in the future:

civil unlawful or criminal act;

mismanagement of Company resources;

any act detrimental to the interest or reputation of the Company or leading to a conflict of
interest situation;

failure to comply with any legal and regulatory obligation;

any act of fraud, theft or corruption;

actual or potential improprieties in financial and other matters;

Reporting incorrect financial data intentionally;

Unauthorized / illegal use of sensitive corporate data; misuse or unauthorized disclosure
of confidential information;

any violation of the Code, Policies, SOPs or applicable laws;

any violation of applicable health, safety and environmental standards;

unauthorized changes in the PSW systems and / or any of its allied components (by
whatever name called);

any act that undermines the Company’s operations and objectives;

deliberate concealment or any attempt to conceal any of the above referred event(s) /
matter(s).

The above list of event(s) / matter(s) is not exhaustive
This Policy does not apply to employee’s career related issues such as promotions, increments,

transfers, relocations, trainings, etc. for which a grievance redressal mechanism in line with the
approved HR Policy may be used.

4. Policy Statement and Applicability

4.1 Any improper, unethical, or inappropriate behavior within the Company is unacceptable, and
this is supported and endorsed at the highest level.

4.2 This Policy applies to all stakeholders including employees, management, directors, vendors
(such as contractors, suppliers, consultants, agents with whom the Company has agreements in
place), customers and any person associated with the Company. The Company shall make this
policy known to all stakeholders.

4.3 All stakeholders are encouraged to disclose and communicate any concerns relating to
ethical, safety, environmental or other possible breaches of compliance.

5. Protection and Support for the Whistleblower

5.1 The Company encourages openness and will support staff raising genuine concerns in good
faith under this Policy even if the claim turns out to be untrue or presumptuous except as provided
in Section 8.3 below.

5.2 Complete confidentiality of whistleblowers shall be maintained, and they will be protected from
any form of retaliation or victimization for genuinely held concerns that are raised in good faith.

6. Procedure

6.1 Any employee may raise any concern / complaint in writing with their line manager or a senior
manager in the department. The concerned line manager or the senior manager shall forward a
copy of the concern / complaint to the Chief Internal Auditor.

6.2 Any concern / complaint may be lodged directly with the Chief Internal Auditor in writing on
the Disclosure of Concern (Annexure A) or by calling on +92-51-9211127. Whistleblower will be
asked to formalize their concerns / complaint in writing either before or after the first meeting.
Alternatively, the concern / complaint may be lodged by using the independent “Speak Out” email
address speakout@psw.gov.pk.

6.3 Information listed below should be included in the concern / complaint as far as practicable:
an outline of the known or suspected wrongdoing;
details about what, when, where and how it occurred;
list of names of those suspected of being involved (both within or outside the Company);
list of the names of anyone who may have relevant information.

6.4 The whistleblower will not be expected to prove a suspected or actual wrongdoing. However,
the whistleblower will be expected to provide evidence to the Internal Audit Department if in case
the whistleblower is in possession of any proof / evidence relating to the suspected or actual
wrongdoing.

6.5 The Internal Audit Department will contact the whistleblower and may schedule a meeting if
required. Provided that complete confidentiality relating to the details of the whistleblower shall
always be maintained.

6.6 The whistleblower has the option of maintaining complete anonymity when reporting a
violation (whether suspected or actual). Anonymous complaints shall be considered at the
discretion of the Audit Committee upon recommendation of the Chief Internal Auditor keeping in
view the seriousness of the issues raised and likelihood of confirming the suspected or actual
violation from reliable sources. However, anonymous reporting is not encouraged as it makes
investigating the concern / complaint difficult.

