
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

 

Note for Approval

Date: 16" May 2023 PSW/ERP/O1
To: Chief Executive Officer
From: Chief Human Resource Officer

 

 

 

 

 

Subject: Approval for Employee Referral Program Policy

 

 

 

PSW Employee Referral Program Policy is designed to recognize and reward employees who
take the initiative to refer their friends and acquaintances to join the organization. The
employee referral program provides an opportunity for the employees to earn monetary
benefits and be able to contribute to creating the best team of qualified and efficient people,
working for the success of the company, and making “PSW” a desirable place to work.

2. The goal of the Employee Referral Program is to make inbound referrals more sustainable
and to identify potential candidates. Such interventions are considered to be one of the most
productive and effective recruiting strategies available to hiring teams. The purpose of this
policy is to provide corporate guidelines pertaining to employee referrals and Referral Incentive
payout.

3. All employees are eligible for referrals except the fixed term employees, Third party staff
hired by PSW working in different capacities, C-suite members, Hiring Manager, Senior
management of the hiring department, Interview assessment panelists and the HR department
employees. In order to ensure transparency and fairness, Referral incentive will be disbursed
in three phases: At the time of joining, After successful completion of the probation period,
After successful completion of one year of continuous service. The following amounts have
been proposed as Referral Incentive payouts.

 

Incentive Disbursement Schedule |

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Joining Probation | One Year service | Total |
Referral category _| Time clearance | completion (PKR)

| General Referral positions | 10,000 | eee 10,000 | 25,000
Hard to fill position 20,000 | 10,000 | 20,000 | 50,000 |

 

 

4. In view of the foregoing, an Employee Referral Program Policy, attached herewith, is to be
presented before the Human Resource/Nomination Committee for its review and
recommendations to the Board for approval, please.

Nis I Chief Humafi Resource Officer

Chief Executive Officer

 

     

any Secretary

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the
proposed transaction or contract or arrangement: YES.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Isa legal opinion required: NO.
   
  
    
  
     
   
  
 
   

i

info@psw.gov.pk
Www. psw.gov.pk

Ph: +92 51 9245605

o ¢ @

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

Reference: ER/POL/v1-23

Document Version: 1

HR & Admin

   
 
 

Maintaining and Implementation
Responsibility

  
 
  

Effective Date

 
 

    

| Next Review Date After Every One Year

 

 

Reviewed by

  

  

Prepared by

Signature. 9.
=

  

Signature:

    

    

Name: Usman Mahboob _ Name: SyedSohaib Hassan
Designation: People & OD Designation: CHRO
Manager

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
», document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
_ document may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party
without the express written permission of PSW.

 
   
« PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

 

1. Introduction

The PSW Employee Referral Programme Policy is designed to recognize and reward employees
who take the initiative to refer their friends and acquaintances to Join the organization.

The employee referral program provides an opportunity for the employees to earn monetary
benefit and be able to contribute to creating the best team of qualified and efficient people,
working for the success of the company and making “PSW” a desirable place to work.

2. Purpose / Objectives

We strongly believe that our existing employees' knowledge of PSW's culture and skill
requirements makes them better positioned to find the right fit for the open position(s). These
employees feel trusted and valued since they are participating in the company’s future and
growth and if their referral gets the job, they feel a sense of pride and accomplishment.

The goal of Employee Referral Programme is to make inbound referrals more sustainable and
to identify potential candidates. Such interventions are considered to be one of the most
productive and effective recruiting strategies available to hiring teams.

The purpose of this policy is to provide corporate guidelines pertaining to employee referrals
and employee referral incentive payout.

3. Scope
This provides guidelines and governance model to qualify for Employee Referral Programme.

4. Definitions

e Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

e Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking
executive at PSW and is responsible for leading the executive team and overall management
of PSW. He is also responsible for required approvals and implementation of PSW policies
and procedures in financial and other matters, ensuring oversight and directions of the Board.

e C-Suite means the senior executive level officers of the company in G-6 and above.

e Referee means employee who refers a candidate to the HR team.

e Referral or Referred candidate means candidate who is being referred by the referee(an
employee).

e PSW recruitment committee consists of CHRO and concerned CXO/HoD.

e Senior Management of Hiring department consists of HoDs looking after other sub
departments.

e Hard to fill referral position pool consists of positions that are niche, based on lack of
candidate pipeline and the length it takes to find viable candidates (time to fill) as determined
by the PSW recruitment committee.

e General employee referral consists of those positions that are hired ona regular basis and
can be easily sourced.

Page 2 of 8

Jy
- PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

LEE tia B satanic Hike

 

 

 

 

5. Applicability

This Employee Referral Program Policy applies to every eligible employee who refers a
candidate to the Human Resource team.

6. Eligibility

All employees are eligible for referrals except the fixed term employees, Third party staff hired
by PSW working in different capacities, C-suite members, Hiring Manager, Senior
management of the hiring department, Interview assessment panelists and the HR
department employees.

7. Exceptions
Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board.
8. Policy Statement

PSW considers resourcing as primarily and strategic exercise in the context of an overall
workforce plan and has adopted the following guiding principles for referral policy:

i. Guiding Principles

e Hiring managers cannot refer anyone for a position for which they are directly or
indirectly responsible but they can refer someone for a position that’s in a different
department.

¢ If two or more employees refer the same candidate, only the first referrer will
qualify for referral incentive.

e Inthe event of any dispute/issue, the final decision will be made by CHRO.

e As part of our recruitment process, PSW employees are eligible to refer external
candidates who, if hired, can result in a referral reward that may vary from position
to position. Refer to Annexure “A”.

e Referral incentive will be disbursed in proportions:

o At the time of joining
‘ o After successful completion of the probation period
o After successful completion of one year of continuous service.

e There is no cap on the number of referrals an employee can make in a year. All
rewards shall be considered accordingly.

e Ex-Interns can be referred for open positions. Referral incentive will not be
applicable in case the ex-intern is referred for a position under the same HoD.

e All Permanent positions qualify for full referral incentive. All Fixed term contract
positions qualify for half of the referral incentive.

Page 3 of 8
 PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

ih 1 Be By oe amie AP

 

e All referred candidates will be evaluated for employment consistent with PSW’s
policies and procedures.

e Candidate must not have been employed by PSW in the previous 12 months ona
Permanent contract.

e Allinformation regarding the hiring decision will remain strictly confidential.

e Any disputes or interpretations of the policy will be handled through the Human
Resource Department.

e Referral incentive will be subject to applicable taxation.

9. Roles and Responsibilities

HR Department will be responsible for the evaluation of referrals and further disbursement
of referral incentive in case of successful hiring.

Employees are responsible for notifying HR department for any candidate they referred in
accordance with the rules of this policy.

10. Information Flow and Reports
All data shall be maintained by the HR department. Key statistics shall be shared with the Board
of Directors or its Human Resource Committee, the CEO, and other members of the C-suite on a
regular basis.
11.Compliance
The HR Department shall ensure compliance with this Policy. Intentional deviation from this
policy will be considered unacceptable from both a compliance and code of conduct perspective.
12. Scope Limitation
None except as mentioned above.
13. Amendments
The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the policy at any time.
Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the Board’s Human Resource
Committee and approved by the Board of Directors except for changes in Annexures that can
be changed on the approval of CEO on recommendation of CHRO.

14. Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the HR Department.

Page 4 of 8
 PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

 

ANNEXURE “A”

All positions shall be considered “General Referral” positions if otherwise
recommended by PSW Recruitment Committee to be tagged as “Hard to fill” referral
positions.

PSW Recruitment Committee shall update the Hiring Manager, Concerned CXO and
the HR Department on tagging a position as “Hard to fill” referral position.

All external position announcements will be made on PSW Job portal.

Employees wiil be required to fill out a form (Annexure B).

Incentive will be disbursed on following criteria.

 

| __Incentive Disbursement Schedule

 

Referral

category

General

Referral 10,000 5,000 10,000 25,000
ositions |

Hard to fill |

 

Joining One Year service
Time Probation clearance | completion Total (PKR)

 

eye 20,000 | 10,000 20,000 50,000
osition

 

HR Department will notify the referring employee of their eligibility and time frame of
when they will be eligible for their referral reward via email.

HR Department will complete the Employee Referral Incentive Disbursement Form
(Annexure-C) and submit to the Finance department/ Payroll to pay the referral
incentive. The payment will be reflected in the employee’s salary.

Page 5 of 8
% PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

 

ANNEXURE “B”

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAM

Thank you for taking the time to refer potential candidates to help with serving PSW’s mission,
fulfilling PSW’s vision, and exemplifying PSW’s values! We are most excited about you helping
with referring candidates that will be a great fit for our organization.

Before you send your referral, we asked that you all review the full guidelines and send any and
all your inquiries to hr@psw.gov.pk.

Some quick highlights of the Employee Referral Program:

e If the candidate you refer is hired, you will receive a referral incentive. However, you are
required to be employed by PSW when the referral incentive is paid.

e Candidate must not have been employed by PSW in the previous 12 months as a
Permanent employee.

e Employees involved in the hiring decision for a particular position are not eligible for
referral awards for that position.

e All Permanent positions qualify for full referral incentive. All Fixed term contract positions
qualify for half of the referral incentive.

Note: This program is dedicated to our current employees so please only circulate this among
your PSW coworkers. Do not forward outside the organization.

To refer a potential employee, please complete the form below along with latest CV of the referral.

Page 6 of 8
 

 

 

ot PSW

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

 

 

 

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL FORM

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION

Employee Name :
Employee Number:
Email Address:

 

 

CANDIDATE REFERRAL INFORMATION
Candidate Name :
Email Address:
Telephone Number:

Position Referred For: _

 

 

 

 

Why this candidate is qualified for this position:

 

 

Please tick Five most suitable behavioral traits that shows that reflect the personality of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

candidate:
“|| Outgoing i! Reserved ao Confident a Insecure |
| } = 4

| Adventurous ‘O Cautious o Optimistic oO] Pessimistic |

| : =| | |

[ | Empathetic o Self-Centered 1) Assertive O Passive |
pt

; "Ambition O Relaxed [| Spontaneous o Methodical |

“| Creative io Logical IC Emotional 7) Rational |
PI | | |

Signatures: _

Date:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 8
 

 PSW EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAMME POLICY

 

 

ANNEXURE “C”

 

EMPLOYEE REFERRAL INCENTIVE DISBURSEMENT FORM

(TO BE SUBMITTED BY HR DEPARTMENT TO FINANCE)

EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Employee Name:
Employee Number:
Email Address:

 

 

CANDIDATE REFERRAL INFORMATION
Candidate Name:
Email Address:
Telephone Number:
Position Referred For:

 

DISBURSEMENT INFORMATION:
Referral category: HARD TO FILL OR GENERAL REFERRAL

 

 

 

Meu: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE |

 
   

 

 

REFERRAL JOININ | AMOUNT PROBATIO | AMOUN | ONE YEAR AMOUNT | TOTAL
CATEGORY | G DATE N T SERVICE (PKR)
CLEARANC COMPLETION
E DATE | DATE
GENERAL 10,000 | 5,000 10,000 25,000 |
REFERRAL
POSITIONS
HARD TO 20,000 10,000 | 20,000 50,000
FILL |
POSITION |

 

 

APPROVED BY CHRO

NAME:
SIGNAURES:
Date:

 

Page 8 of 8
