INTERN PROGRAMME POLICY

Preamble

PSW interns are governed under a flexible internship programme that is focused on building personal skills, knowledge and facilitation of the organization.

These interns or trainees can be inducted on need basis such as talent pipeline, maternity cover ups, short-gap-arrangement on abrupt resignation or as project staff on assignment basis.

1. POLICY

a) The interns inducted will preferably be graduates and / or professional certificate holders. However, for short-term internships, undergraduates or partially qualified certificate holders may also be considered.

b) The internship period shall be a minimum of 30 days which can be extended up to 6 months.

c) Internships can be paid or unpaid, depending upon requirement, performance, cost and budget.

d) At times students require mandatory internships for the completion of their degrees or certifications and in some instances to secure admissions in foreign universities. In such cases PSW encourages 12 weeks’ paid internship.

e) The internship period will be from one to six months in duration. Interns will be given a fixed stipend of Rs. 25,000 per month.

2. PROCEDURE

a) Based on need intimated by the relevant departments, the Human Resource Department will identify number of interns needed.

b) However, interns will usually be inducted through informal headhunting and word of mouth such as requesting academia, colleges, universities, professional bodies, associated institutions, organizations, firms, etc. for recommendations.

c) Interviews will be conducted for these interns by the Human Resource Department in collaboration with relevant departments. Interview questions may cover effective assessment regarding the technical, personal, ethical and behavioral suitability of a candidate.

d) The best candidate will be informed of their selection, the date of joining and the work he/she will be expected to perform in the relevant department.

e) Head of HR & Admin will authorize and approve the internship (subject to availability of Budgetary Provisions).

f) Interns performance will be monitored regularly, in case of any disciplinary issue, internship period would cease to end with immediate effect on one day notice.

g) On successful completion of the internship period, the interns will be awarded certificate.