
Ne
‘S

info@psw.gov.pk
www.psw.gov.pk

Ph: +92 51 9245605

a en)

PSW Head Office, NTC
Center, G-5/2, Islamabad.

   
  

EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

Reference: ERP/POL/v1-23

Document Version: 1

Human Resource Department

   
 
  
 
 

| Custodian

 

 

Maintaining and Implementation | Chief Human Resource Officer

Responsibility

 

     

Effective Date BoD Approval Date

After Every Year

    

| Next Review Date

  

Name: = Oat VAneeot or Oar Varsha

 

Confidential Information: The information provided in this
document is intended solely for the use of PSW. The contents of this
document may not be reproduced or divulged to any third party
without the express written permission of PSW.
Me PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

Pin ty a ate

1.

introduction

The Employee Reward & Recognition policy is a compensation program that
provides employees with additional monetary rewards for meeting or exceeding
performance goals. PSW is committed to recognizing employees’ contributions to
the overall objectives of the company. The company recognizes monetary rewards
as a tool for encouraging, recognizing, and rewarding employee contributions,
exemplary performance, and continuous service and believes that reward and
recognition programs help maintain a high retention rate and encourage excellence
in service to the company and its stakeholders. Accordingly, the company is
developing and adopting both monetary and non-monetary reward programs for
employees. The policy is part of the company’s overall strategy to create a
performance-based culture where employees’ outstanding contributions,
innovation, and extraordinary accomplishments are formally recognized by PSW
management.

Objectives

The purpose of this policy is to enable the management to implement the reward
and recognition initiatives and provide guidelines on the scope, proposed criteria,
nomination, and approval process, which is in line with recommended best
practices, the policy contains the following objectives:

1. Motivate and encourage employees to. strive for exemplary
performance and contribute to the achievement of PSW objectives.

2. Enable the management to recognize and reward outstanding
performance in the accomplishment of specific tasks/projects.

3. Create and promote a performance-based or high-performance work

culture.
4. Improve PSW’'s ability to attract, develop, and retain the best talent.

Overall, the purpose of an employee reward and recognition policy is to create a
win-win situation for both employees and the organization. By rewarding
employees for their contributions, organizations can improve employee morale and
motivation, increase productivity and competitiveness, and foster a culture of
excellence and achievement.

Eligibility:

All permanent employees who have completed their probation period with the PSW
may be eligible for the performance reward(s). Rewards shall be pro-rated from the
date of joining only for Extraordinary Performance rewards.

Page 2 of 9
oe PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

hat, HSA ein, al, ee

 

 

4. Scope
The policy covers the following types of rewards:

Extraordinary Performance Reward- The Performance-based reward is to recognize
employees who have demonstrated continuous outstanding performance or who have
made a significant contribution to PSW’s objectives in the previous year. Refer to
Annexure - A.

Project-based Reward- The Project-based reward is to recognize employees upon the
successful completion of a special project or assignment that has added notable value
to the PSW’s ability to achieve a major milestone in addition to their assigned duties.
Special Recognition Rewards- The Special recognition reward recognizes employees
for their excellent performance, outstanding effort, behavior, or action connected to a
specific event, idea, or activity that contributes to PSW’s objectives. Employees who
are recognized in any employee recognition activity led by the HR department are
eligible for such rewards.

5. Definitions

i. Board means the Board of Directors of the PSW Company.

ii. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the highest-ranking executive at PSW who
will be responsible for the management of PSW and the implementation of
its policies and procedures in financial and other matters, subject to oversight
and directions of the Board.

iii. CHRO means the Chief Human Resource Officer, the Head of the Human
Resource Department.

iv. C-suite Executive means the top tier of the company management
comprising the Chief Technology Officer, Chief Domain Officer, Chief
Security Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Human
Resources Officer, Chief Communications Officer, Company Secretary, and
the Chief Executive Officer.

v. BHRC means Board of Directors’ HR Committee

5. Applicability

The policy applies to all employees of the company including Permanent and Fixed
term contract employees, officers on deputation, except the following:

1. Employees still serving their probation period.

2. Employees on Performance Improvement Plans.

3. External staff embedded with PSW employees on outsourcing
arrangements.

NOTE: Fixed term/temporary contract employees, Management trainee officers, and
interns are eligible only for Special Recognition Rewards.

Page 3 of 9
Me PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

RE IRM Teh NEG N IH

 

 

 

4. Policy Statement

Rewards are given to PSW employees in recognition of their outstanding
performance, and contribution to achieving PSW’'s objectives, and shall be given
to those employees who have worked above and beyond what is usually
expected of that position for the accomplishment of work objectives. Examples
include:

e Excellent work contributing to PSW's progress, efficiency, and
improved service delivery.

e Aspecial effort that has a significant impact on the fulfillment of PSW’s
objectives

e Optimizing process organization to substantially reduce time and costs
for the PSW system as well as the PSW Company

e Developing an innovative product or service

e Demonstrating Leadership or administrative excellence

PSW discourages discrimination, fraternization, favoritism, or nepotism in
awarding these rewards.

5. General Guidelines

e Extraordinary Performance Rewards are a one-time monetary reward
and shall be awarded only once in a fiscal year after the completion of
the Annual Performance Appraisal.

e CHRO shall prepare a reward payout case in consultation with CFO for
the CEO’s review and approval.

e Project-based Rewards may be given anytime during the year on the
successful completion of an Adhoc project/assignment on the
recommendation of the relevant C-suite executive.

e Project-based Recognition shall be awarded only when _ project
completion has been achieved in, or, before time, or when there is
demonstrable evidence of extraordinary effort for the successful delivery
of the project.

e Special Recognition Rewards may be awarded anytime during the year
on the recommendation of the C-suite Executive on completion of a
specific event, action, or activity.

e Recommendations for Project-based Rewards and/or Special
Recognition Rewards shall be submitted to the CHRO along with full
justification on the form as per the attached format (Annexure-B).

¢ CHRO will lead the initiative to gather nominations and present them to
CEO for his review and further discussion with the concerned CXO. The
CEO will share the final validated list with CHRO.

Page 4 of 9
i RAE Ss, tinct,

Me PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

 

 

e A list of all employees who have received any of the rewards shall be
shared with the Board of Directors HR Committee (BHRC) at the end of
the financial year if required.

e The Board of Directors HR Committee (BHRC) is authorized to consider
and recommend the Extraordinary Performance Reward of the Chief
Executive Officer for approval of the Board.

6. Roles and Responsibilities
e Extraordinary Performance Reward

e The HR department is responsible for receiving and processing the
annual appraisal rating of the employee assigned by the relevant C-suite
member.

e HR department shall verify that the employee meets the criteria for the
reward and submit the recommendation to the CHRO. CHRO, in
consultation with the CFO, shall prepare case summaries. CHRO will
present them to the CEO for his review and further discussion with the
concerned CXO if any. The CEO will share the final validated list with
CHRO based on the available budget and finalized appraisal rating.

e The HR department shall also maintain records for submission before the
BHRC if required.

e The Finance department shall process the payments and keep records.

e The HR department will send a formal letter/email to the employee.

e Project based/Special Recognition Rewards:

¢ The relevant C-suite Executive is responsible for submitting a
recommendation along with the requisite documentation for Project
based/Special Recognition Rewards.

e The HR department is responsible for receiving and processing the
recommendation as per policy. It shall verify that the employee meets
the criteria for the recognition reward and submit the recommendation
to the CHRO. CHRO will present them to CEO for his review and further
discussion with the concerned CXO. The CEO will share the final
validated list with CHRO based on the available budget.

¢ The HR department shall also maintain records for submission before the
BHRC if required.

e The Finance Department shall process the payments and keep records.

e The HR department will send a formal letter/email to the employee on
disbursement of the reward.

Page 5 of 9
oe PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

it BAe ee AEN fie

 

7. Compliance

The CHRO is to ensure compliance with this policy. Intentional deviation from
this policy will be considered unacceptable from both a compliance and Code of
Conduct perspective.

8. Exceptions

Any exception to this policy needs to be endorsed by the Board of Directors or
the respective subcommittee of the Board of Directors HR Committee (BHRC)
on its behalf.

9. Amendments
The Company reserves the right to change or withdraw all or any part of the
policy at any time. Any changes to the policy document shall be reviewed by the
BHRC and approved by the Board of Directors excluding amendments and
changes to the process published in Annexure - A and/or Annexure - B of this
document.

10. Administration

This policy shall be administered by the HR department.

Page 6 of 9

yy
A IR SIV et

me PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

 

ANNEXURE -A
Extraordinary Performance Reward

e To be eligible to receive the Extraordinary Performance Reward, the employee
must have a current performance rating of at least “Exceed Expectations” or
equivalent and must have completed at least one performance appraisal cycle.

e At the end of the annual performance appraisal cycle, the HR department will share
a list of all eligible employees with each CXO for their records.

e The amount of this annual reward shall be awarded based on the available budget
and the performance rating of the employees as per the following criteria.

¢ CHRO in consultation with the CFO shall prepare case reward disbursements and
share them with the CEO for approval.

 

 

 

| Grade ] Unsatisfactory | Needs Meet Job | Exceed Job Outstanding
Improvement | Expectations __Expectations | |
Gi |
G2 Up to 3 monthly gross salaries
mex) _ |

 

No Reward

G5
G6 _| Up to 2 monthly gross salaries
G7 | ;

Project-based Rewards

 

 

e The amount of the Project-based Reward shall not exceed PKR 50,000 per
employee. (Cash and/or shield etc.)

e Anemployee is only entitled to two project-based rewards ina year.

¢ CHRO in consultation with the CFO shall prepare case reward disbursements and
share them with the CEO for approval.

Special Recognition Rewards

e The amount of the Special Recognition Reward shall not exceed Rs. 25,000/- per
employee (Cash and/or Shield, etc.)

e An employee is only eligible for one Special Recognition Reward per quarter.

e Employees who are recognized in any recognition activity led by the HR department
are eligible for Special Recognition Rewards.

e CHRO in consultation with the CFO shall prepare case award disbursements and
share with the CEO for approval.

Page 7 of 9
*.
ome PSW EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

Re lta atic fy

 

ANNEXURE - B

SPECIAL RECOGNITION REWARD RECOMMENDATION FORM

 

 

Employee Name

 

 

 

Employee Number

 

 

 

 

Current
Designation/Complete Title
Department
REWARD Type

Special recognition

 

Justification for the
recognition/reward

 

 

 

Impact on PSW
(system/company)

 

Has this employee received
any reward during the last

 

 

 

 

 

12 months?
Line Manager Name: HOD/CXO Name: a _
Line Manager Employee Number: HOD/CXO Employee Number: _
Signature: Signature:
Date: : Date:

\p Page 8 of 9
PSW

Se TK PRE

EMPLOYEE REWARD & RECOGNITION POLICY

 

PROJECT BASED REWARD RECOMMENDATION FORM

 

 

Employee Name(s)

 

 

 

Employee Number(s)

Current Designation(s)

 

 

 

 

Department(s)

 

Project details

 

Employee-wise
Contribution

 

 

 

 

 

 

+————

Impact on PSW
(system/company)

 

 

Has any employee received
any reward during the last
12 months?

 

 

 

 

 

Project Manager Name: _

Project Manager's Employee Number:

Signature:

Date:

HOD/CXO Name:
HOD/CXO Employee Number:
Signature:

Date:

Page 9 of 9

 
