Issuance of Employees’ PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

Summary

1. In accordance with the directions disseminated by the HR Committee in its 13th meeting held on 13th September 2023, the management analyzed the current cash-based allowance system with a fuel card to align the employment benefits with the prevailing market practices.

2. The management opted for “Pakistan State Oil (PSO)”, a state-owned enterprise, for this purpose. PSO agreed to waive off the initial card fee while reducing the maintenance fee from 1.75% to 0.5%, which may be further reduced upon materialization.

3. Under the proposed scheme, every employee shall get a fuel card with the already defined fuel allowance limits for Grades G-3 to G-7 while for Grades G-1 & G-2, the existing conveyance allowance of Rs. 8,000/- per month shall be replaced with a fuel limit of 80 liters per month. This would solicit an amendment in the existing “Benefit Grid for PSW Employees” which was previously approved by the Board vide Resolution through Circulation No. 10 dated 3rd May 2021.

4. The employees shall be allowed to withdraw their un-utilized balances twice a year i.e., 31st December & 30th June, or as part of final settlement. In both cases, withholding taxes would be applicable.

5. The transition promises numerous advantages, some of which are: Streamlined and paper-less expense management; Real-time expense tracking and reporting; Customizable spending limits and restrictions with enhanced security & fraud protection; Extensive network coverage; Digital access to PSO; Reduced tax deduction in monthly salaries; and Challenges in calculating tax amounts due to fortnightly fuel price revision by the Government would be addressed.

6. Financial Impact: Fuel cost per liter at prevailing market is assumed at Rs. 270 per liter; As there is no change from Grades G-3 to G-7, hence no corresponding financial impact; The employees at Grades G-1 & G-2 shall be allotted new fuel limits in place of the existing fixed conveyance allowance. This shall translate into a monthly impact of around Rs. 1.5 million.

The matter is brought before the HR Committee for its review and further recommendations to the Board.

Note for Approval

Date: 5th December 2023 PSW/HR & Fin./2023-24/

To: Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

From: CHRO & CFO Subject: Issuance of Employees’ PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

In pursuance of the direction of the 13th Human Resource (HR) Committee meeting held on 13th September 2023, the management has analyzed the possibility of replacing the existing cash-based fuel allowance system with a fuel card to align the employment benefits with the prevailing market practices. Based on the analysis of services provided by various fuel suppliers, the management proposes the adoption of the Pakistan State Oil (PSO) Fuel Cards for all employees to replace the existing fuel allowance system. This transition promises numerous advantages, such as streamlined expense management, real-time tracking, and various other benefits.

In facilitating this transition, key steps include contracting with PSO, a state-owned entity, as the designated card and fuel provider at government announced rates along with communication and handholding of employees. The transition would require amending the Compensation and Benefits grid previously approved by the Board vide Resolution through Circulation No. 10 dated 3rd May 2021. A detailed working paper has been developed by the management to support the proposed transition which is attached at Annex-A. The estimated financial impact based on the current workforce of the employees is Rs.1.5 million, mostly due to substitution of the conveyance allowance of Rs.8000/- per month for employees in Grades G-1 & G-2 with a fuel card equivalent to the approved 80 liters limit at actual cost,

Subsequent to the favorable recommendation of the HR Committee, the Board's approval is solicited for: Amending the compensation and benefits grid to substitute the existing fuel allowance with fuel cards of equal values for all employees from Grade G-1 to Grade G-7, Stopping the conveyance allowance of Rs.8000/- per month for Grade G-1 and Grade G-2 on provision of the fuel card. Allowing employees, the option of claiming their unutilized balances twice a year on 31st December and 30th June, or as part of their final settlement in case of end of their employment with the company, subject to applicable withholding tax.

Chief Human Resource Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary

Disclosures: 1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or contract or arrangement: NO. 2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES. 3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.

Annexure-A

PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

1. Executive Summary

This working paper explores the potential transition from the traditional fuel allowance system to a more efficient and employee-friendly solution: the use of digital fuel cards. Our objective is to enhance expense management while ensuring convenience for our workforce. Dissatisfaction among lower-grade employees and challenges with reimbursement as taxable income, coupled with fluctuating fuel rates, have underscored the need for a more streamlined approach. This paper outlines key findings and recommendations for implementing fuel cards and the benefits they offer.

2. Introduction

The current method of providing monthly fuel allowances to employees has proven less efficient and less cost-effective due to various factors. In light of these challenges, our organization is considering the adoption of fuel cards as a more convenient means for employees to manage their fuel expenses.

3. Background

Currently, the system involves granting a monthly cash allowance to employees for their fuel expenses. The Board approved Conveyance and Fuel Allowances on vide Resolution through Circulation No. 10 dated 3rd May 2021.

4. Rationale for transition

Employees, especially those in Grade G-1 and G-2, have been struggling with rising fuel costs since early last year. While the monetary impact of the higher fuel costs for Grade G-3 and above has been absorbed by the company, the real income of the employees in these grades has decreased due to higher tax liability. 85% of Grade G-1 and G-2 employees who resigned citing “Better Compensation” mentioned non-availability of fuel either in cash or in the form of card as a major reason for the switch to a new workplace. 90% of Grade G-3 and above resigned

employees who received cash amount as per grade wise fuel limit mentioned additional tax deduction as an area of concern for them in their exit interviews.

Accordingly, the management proposes switching to the fuel card system and allowing fuel allowance to Grade G-1 & G-2 employees on an actual cost basis. To assess the feasibility and benefits of fuel cards, the Accounts & Finance department conducted a comprehensive review of the current system, researched industry best practices, and gathered employee feedback through exit interviews. Additionally, potential fuel card providers were also evaluated ultimately selecting Pakistan State Oil (PSO) based on the following criteria:

PSO's status as a state-owned entity. Extensive network coverage. Availability of fuel even during Fuel crisis, lubricants, and related services. An automated card system with digital access to PSO via the PSW web portal.

5. Benefits of Fuel Cards

Fuel cards offer several advantages some of which are: Streamlined and paperless expense management. Real-time expense tracking and reporting. Customizable spending limits and restrictions. Enhanced security with PIN and fraud protection. Access to a network of fuel stations for added convenience. Improved compliance with expense policies. Reduced tax deduction in monthly salaries. Challenges in calculating tax amounts due to fortnightly fuel price revision by the Government would be addressed.

6. Implementation Plan

The implementation plan for introducing fuel cards includes the following key steps: Onboarding of PSO as the fuel card provider. Development of a communication plan to inform employees about the transition. Distribution of fuel cards to eligible employees via the PSW web portal, managed by authorized HR & Admin personnel. Training sessions to educate employees on the prudent use of fuel cards.

7. Silent Features

PSO Fuel Cards shall be issued to all employees in accordance with the HR Committees’ recommendation. Fuel Cards shall be topped up in rupee value on prevailing fuel price every month with respective assigned limits for previous completed month or period. PSO web portal will provide the periodic consumption pattern and analysis thereon. Individual employees’ cash balances shall be carried forwarded to the next month. Any unutilized balance may be claimed by the employee in cash twice a year on 31st December or 30th June, or on the last day of their service with PSW subject to deduction of withholding taxes where applicable. In the case of employee resignation, employee will only be entitled for fuel for the number of days served. Any over usage would be recovered through the final settlement of the employee. New joiners will be issued card with cash fuel limit based on the number of remaining days of the month.

We are in negotiation with PSO representatives, who assured us to waive the initial Rs. 500 Plastic Card Fee for each employee and also reduced maintenance fee from 1.75% to 0.5%. The same may be further reduced at the time of implementation of the scheme subject to certain conditions.

8. Financial Impact

Fuel cost per liter at prevailing market is assumed at @ PKR 270 per liter. There is no change from Grades G-3 to G-7, hence no corresponding financial impact. Around 48 employees in Grade G-2 and 65 employees in Grade G-1 will get PSO Card along with all other employees for their respective limit of 80 liters instead of previously fixed allowance of Rs. 8,000/- with monthly impact