
PROTECTION AGAINST HARASSMENT AT THE WORKPLACE
1. POLICY STATEMENT

It is the Company policy to maintain a code of conduct that assures everyone working at
our organization, regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, disability,
orientation, etc., the right to dignity and respect. The Company will not tolerate any type
of sexual harassment, nor any other form of harassment, abuse, discrimination,
derogatory remarks or inappropriate jokes.

The Company aims to provide a safe and respectful work environment for everyone.
With respect to women employees, the Company has implemented “The Protection
against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act 2010” which provides a minimum
Code of Conduct for Protection against Harassment and a procedure for appeal aimed at
establishing a safe working environment, free from intimidation and abuse for all
working women.

2. ELIGIBILITY FOR PROTECTION UNDER THIS POLICY

All employees are eligible for protection under this policy. Even though the law, through
the Act 2010, mentioned above, provides protection only to women at work, the
Company goes a step beyond and applies a similar procedure for all genders within its
work environment.

The Policy covers all incidents of harassment that may occur outside working hours and
workplace involving company employees.

3. REPORTING AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE

a) The company has established an Inquiry Committee to work in this regard and to
undertake the following measures for implementation of this policy:

e Adaptation of the Code of Conduct for Protection against Harassment to apply it
for all genders.

e Address complaints as soon as possible and according to the defined procedure.

e Ensure that justice is done swiftly and retaliation against the complainant is
curbed.

b) Harassment and its manifestations, informal and formal complaint procedures are
defined in the Code of Conduct for Protection against Harassment (refer Annexure 1).

c) A detailed explanation about the inquiry procedure following a formal complaint and the
role of the Inquiry Committee are given in the Harassment Inquiry Committee’s Terms
of Reference and Procedure (refer Annexure 2).

d) It is strongly recommended that any employee experiencing or witnessing harassment
should start documenting the events in detail immediately (what, why, where, who,
when, how) and report the incident as soon as possible. The complaint can be registered
either informally or formally as per the defined procedures.

e) It is the responsibility of management to ensure fairness and justice in all such cases. ae

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW - HUMAN RESOURCE MANUAL

 
f) Incases where the accused are Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or other members at C-level,
the BoD and the Chairman of the Board will assess the case and a decision will be made.

g) Itis a serious offence to make a false accusation, and anyone found guilty of doing so will
face strict disciplinary action.

4. Responsibility of the Supervisors

All supervisors and Heads of Departments must make every effort to create and promote
a safe and healthy environment for all employees and visitors. Supervisors are expected
to take all allegations of harassment, including sexual harassment, seriously and report
the matter to the appropriate authority.

5. Expectation from Employees

Employees are expected to comply with this policy. For more information on the
expected behaviours, refer guidelines for Disciplinary Action and Code of Conduct.

6. Amendments

All or any part of this policy may be changed at any time in compliance with any changes
in the applicable law.

The Board shall be the approving authority of this policy. However, subsequent changes
and amendments to the annexures may be made with the accord of the CEO.

7. Administration

This policy shall be administered by HR.

 

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW - HUMAN RESOURCE MANUAL 2
Annexure |

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PROTECTION AGAINST HARASSMENT AT THE
WORKPLACE

(i) The Code provides a guideline for behavior of all employees, including management and the
owners of an organization to ensure a work environment free of harassment and intimidation.
(ii) “Harassment” means any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other verbal
or written communication or physical conduct of a sexual nature or sexually demeaning attitudes,
causing interference with work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive work
environment, or the attempt to punish the complainant for refusal to comply to such a request or
is made a condition for employment.
The above is unacceptable behavior in PSW, including in any interaction or situation that is linked
to official work or official activity outside the office.
Explanation:
There are three significant manifestations of harassment in the work environment:
(a) Abuse of authority
A demand by a person in authority, such as a supervisor, for sexual favors in order for the
complainant to keep or obtain certain job benefits, be it a wage increase, a promotion, training
opportunity, a transfer or the job itself.
(b) Creating a hostile environment
Any unwelcome sexual advance, request for sexual favors or other verbal or physical conduct of
a sexual nature, which interferes with an individual’s work performance or creates an intimidating,
hostile, abusive or offensive work environment. The typical “hostile environment” claim, in
general, requires finding of a pattern of offensive conduct, however, in cases where the harassment
is particularly severe, such as in cases involving physical contact, a single offensive incident will
constitute a violation.
(c) Retaliation
The refusal to grant a favor can result in retaliation, which may include limiting the employee’s
options for future promotions or training, distorting the evaluation reports, generating gossip
against the employee or other ways of limiting access to his/her rights. Such behavior is also a part

of the harassment.
(iii) An informal approach to resolve a complaint of harassment may be through mediation
between the parties involved and by providing advice and counseling on a strictly confidential
basis.

(iv) A complainant or a staff member designated by the complainant for the purpose may report
an incident of harassment informally to the supervisor, or a member of the Inquiry Committee, in
which case the supervisor or the Committee member may address the issue at complainant’s
discretion in the spirit of this Code. The request may be made orally or in writing.

(v) If the case is taken up for investigation at an informal level, a senior manager from the office
or the head office will conduct the investigation in a confidential manner. The alleged accused will
be approached with the intention of resolving the matter in a confidential manner.

(vi) If the incident or the case reported does constitute harassment of a higher degree and the officer
or a member reviewing the case feels that it needs to be pursued formally for a disciplinary action,
with the consent of the complainant, the case can be taken as a formal complaint;

(vii) A complainant does not necessarily have to take a complaint of harassment through the
informal channel. A formal complaint can be launched at any time;

(viii) The complainant may make formal complaint through the supervisor or a representative, as
the case may be, or directly to any member of the Inquiry Committee. The Committee is obligated
to initiate the process of investigation as detailed in the terms of reference of Inquiry Committee.
The supervisor shall facilitate the process and is obligated not to cover up or obstruct the inquiry;
(ix) Assistance in the inquiry procedure can be sought from any member of the organization who
should be contacted to assist in such a case;

(x) The employer shall do its best to temporarily make adjustments so that the accused and the
complainant do not have to interact for official purposes during the investigation period. This
would include temporarily changing the office, in case both sit in one office, or taking away any
extra charge over and above their contract which may give one party excessive powers over the
other's job conditions. The employer can also decide to send the accused on leave, or suspend the
accused in accordance with the applicable procedures for dealing with the cases of misconduct, if
required;

(xi) Retaliation from either party should be strictly monitored. During the process of the
investigation work, evaluation, daily duties, reporting structure and any parallel! inquiries initiated

should be strictly monitored to avoid any retaliation from either side;

 
(xii) The harassment usually occurs between colleagues or between a junior and senior when they
are alone, therefore, usually it is difficult to produce evidence. It is strongly recommended that
staff should report an offensive behavior immediately to someone they trust, even if they do not
wish to make a formal complaint at the time. Although not reporting immediately shall not affect
the merits of the case; documenting the events in detail should also be done immediately so any
important details are not forgotten; and

(xiii) While the Code lays down the minimum standards of behavior regarding protection from
harassment at the workplace, it will not affect any better arrangement that an organization may

have developed nor, will it bar the grant of protection that employees working in an organization
C

v
(| 3

may secure from their employers through negotiation.
| 4 | ie:
iy Hu al

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

Harassment Inquiry
Committee - Terms of
Reference & Procedure

The information provided in this document is intended solely for the use of PSW.
The contents of this document may not be reproduced or divulged to any third
party without the express written permission of PSW.

S'

 
1. Authority:

The Harassment Inquiry Committee (hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”) has been
established and duly implemented by the Company under office order No: 3/HR/2022 approved
by the CEO.

2. Objective:

The purpose of the Committee is to enquire into complaints lodged under the Policy and make
appropriate recommendations for implementation.

3. Mandate:

The mandate of the Committee is to:

Act in accordance with the guidelines provided in The Protection against Harassment of
Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 (“The Act’);

Review and evaluate the written complaint lodged under the Policy;

Communicate charges to the accused and statement of allegations levelled against them;
Provide accused a platform to defend the charges and allegations levelled against them;
Provide recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company; and

Monitor implementation of its recommendations.

4. Composition of Inquiry Committee:

a. No. of Members: The Committee shall consist of five members of whom at least one

member shall be a female. All members of the Committee shall be active employees of
the company and will be appointed by the CEO-PSW.

b. Structure and Appointment of Chairperson: One of the members of the committee, not
below than G-6 grade, shall be appointed as the Chairperson by the CEO, whose duties
shall include, but are not limited to:

e Summon the committee proceedings;

e Maintaining order during hearings;

e Answering procedural questions; and

e Granting or denying adjournments.
Chairperson of the Committee shall appoint a secretary from members of the Committee
who along with other things shall maintain proper documentation of the proceedings,
minutes of the meetings and reporting recommendations of the Committee to the CEO.
All these duties shall be undertaken in consultation with the Committee members.

c. In case a complaint is made against one of the members of the committee, the CEO may

replace that member by another (impartial member) for that particular case.
5. Powers of the Inquiry Committee: .
5.1. The Inquiry Committee shall have powers to: , :
“ Page 2 of 4
inquire into the matters of harassment under the Policy;

b. to get the complainant or the accused medically examined by an authorized doctor, if
necessary;

summon and enforce attendance of any person and examine them on oath;
require the discovery and production of any document;
record evidence; and

mo 209

regulate its own procedure for conducting inquiry and for fixing place and time of its
sitting subject to the provisions of the Act and any rules made thereunder.
§.2. The Inquiry Committee also have powers to recommend:

a. Appropriate penalty against the accused within the meaning of sub-section (4) of Section
4 of the Act.

b. To Ombudsman for appropriate action against the complainant if allegations leveled
against the accused are found to be false and made with mala fide intentions.

c. To treat the proceedings of the inquiry confidential.

6. Procedure for holding Inquiry:

[ Tce After A Written Complaint is Received by the Inquiry Committee

‘Within 3 days Inquiry Committee communicates in writing the charges and statement of
allegations to the accused, the formal written receipt of which will be given.

 

Within 7 days from The Committee requires the accused to submit a written defense to the
the day the charge statement of allegations.

is communicated

to the accused

After 7 days On failure of the accused in submitting a written defense to the Inquiry
Committee without any reasonable cause, the Committee shall proceed ex
parte.

Inquiry Process The Committee ‘inquires into the Charge and may examine. such oral or

documentary evidence in support of the charge or in defense of the accused
as the Committee may consider necessary. Each party shall be entitled to
cross-examine the witnesses against him/her.

The following provisions inter alia shall be followed by the Committee in
relation to the inquiry:

a. The complainant can withdraw the complaint within 15 days of filing
the formal request;

b. The Committee may close the inquiry if the accused apologizes to
the complainant in the first hearing and the apology is accepted by
the complainant;

c. The statements and other evidence acquired in the inquiry process
shall be considered as confidential;

d. An officer in an organization, if considered necessary, may be
nominated to provide advice and assistance to both parties;

e. Both parties, the complainant and the accused, shall have the right
to be represented or accompanied by a friend or a colleague;

f. Adverse action shall not be taken against the complainant or the

witnesses; WY
C .

Page 3 of 4
Within 30 Days of
the Initiation of the
Inquiry

Within One Week
of the receipt of
the
Recommendations
of the = Inquiry
Committee

7. Confidentiality:

g. The Inquiry Committee shall ensure that the employer or accused
shall in no case create any hostile environment for the complainant
so as to pressurize the complainant from freely pursuing the
complaint;

h. The Inquiry Committee shall give its findings in writing by recording
reasons thereof; and

i. No action shail be taken against any employee who reports in good
faith information on perceived misconduct that subsequently proves
unfounded.

The Inquiry Committee shall submit its findings and recommendations to the
CEO or the BoD as the case may be. If the Inquiry Committee finds the
accused to be guilty it shall recommend imposing one or more of the
following penalties:

1. Minor penalties
a. censure;
b. withholding, for a specific period, promotion or increment; and
c. recovery of the compensation payable to the complainant from pay
or any other source of the accused.
2. Major penalties
a. reduction to a lower post;
b. removal from service;
c. dismissal from service; and
d. Fine. A part of the fine can be used as compensation for the
complainant.

The Inquiry Committee may reopen the proceedings on receipt of additional
information/evidence regarding undue influence or retaliation by the
accused against the complainant or witnesses after the finalization of the
Inquiry Report.

The CEO shall i impose e the penalty recommended | by th the Inquiry Committee
under sub-section (4) of the Act.

Implementation of the Decision

a. The Inquiry Committee shall meet on a regular basis and monitor the
situation regularly until they are satisfied that their recommendations
subject to the decision, if any of CEO and Appellate Authority, if
applicable, have been implemented.

b. In case the complainant is in trauma, the organization will arrange
for psycho-social counseling or medical treatment and for additional
medical leave.

c. The organization may also offer compensation to the complainant in
case of loss of salary or other damages.

Confidentiality shall be enjoined on the Inquiry Committee and all others involved in the process.
This does not preclude the reasonable and discreet disclosure of information in order to elicit the
facts of the case, or to implement and monitor properly the terms of any decision.

The members of the Inquiry Committee and their support staff shall be subject to administrative
disciplinary action for inappropriate breaches of confidentiality on their part.

All notes and records arising in connection with an investigation shall be ; Sagintained in a

confidential file.

OQ A :
2 . ~

} Page 4 of 4
