Issuance of Employees’ PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance 
Summary 
1. In accordance with the directions disseminated by the HR Committee in its 13th 
meeting held on 13th September, 2023, the management analyzed the current cash 
based allowance system with a fuel card to align the employment benefits with the 
prevailing market practices. 
 
2. The management opted for “Pakistan State Oil (PSO)”, a state-owned enterprise, for 
this purpose. PSO agreed to waive off the initial card fee while reducing the 
maintenance fee from 1.75% to 0.5% which may be further reduced upon 
materialization. 
 
3. Under the proposed scheme, every employee shall get a fuel card with the already 
defined fuel allowance limits for Grades G-3 to G-7 while for Grades G-1 & G-2, the 
existing conveyance allowance of Rs. 8,000/- per month shall be replaced with a 
fuel limit of 80 liters per month. This would solicit an amendment in the existing 
“Benefit Grid for PSW Employees” which was previously approved by the Board 
vide Resolution through Circulation No. 10 dated 3rd May, 2021. 
 
4. The employees shall be allowed to withdraw their un-utilized balances twice a year 
i.e. 31st December & 30th June, or as part of final settlement. In both cases, 
withholding taxes would be applicable. 
 
5. The transition promises numerous advantages, some of which are: 
• Streamlined and paper-less expense management; 
• Real-time expense tracking and reporting; 
• Customizable spending limits and restrictions with enhanced security & fraud 
protection; 
• Extensive network coverage; 
• Digital access to PSO; 
• Reduced tax deduction in monthly salaries; and 
• Challenges in calculating tax amounts due to fortnightly fuel price revision by 
the Government would be addressed. 
 
 
 
 
6. Financial Impact: 
• Fuel cost per liter at prevailing market is assumed at Rs. 270 per liter; 
• As there is no change from Grades G-3 to G-7, hence no corresponding financial 
impact; 
• The employees at Grades G-1 & G-2 shall be allotted new fuel limits in place of 
the existing fixed conveyance allowance. This shall translate into a monthly 
impact of around Rs. 1.5 million. 
 
The matter is brought before the HR Committee for its review and further 
recommendations to the Board. 
 

Issuance of Employees’ PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

Summary

. In accordance with the directions disseminated by the HR Committee in its 13*"
meeting held on 13 September, 2023, the management analyzed the current cash
based allowance system with a fuel card to align the employment benefits with the
prevailing market practices.

. The management opted for “Pakistan State Oil (PSO)’, a state-owned enterprise, for
this purpose. PSO agreed to waive off the initial card fee while reducing the
maintenance fee from 1.75% to 0.5% which may be further reduced upon
materialization.

. Under the proposed scheme, every employee shall get a fuel card with the already
defined fuel allowance limits for Grades G-3 to G-7 while for Grades G-1 & G-2, the
existing conveyance allowance of Rs. 8,000/- per month shall be replaced with a
fuel limit of 80 liters per month. This would solicit an amendment in the existing
“Benefit Grid for PSW Employees” which was previously approved by the Board
vide Resolution through Circulation No. 10 dated 3 May, 2021.

. The employees shall be allowed to withdraw their un-utilized balances twice a year
i.e. 315¢ December & 30% June, or as part of final settlement. In both cases,
withholding taxes would be applicable.

. The transition promises numerous advantages, some of which are:

e Streamlined and paper-less expense management;

e Real-time expense tracking and reporting;

e Customizable spending limits and restrictions with enhanced security & fraud
protection;

e Extensive network coverage;

e Digital access to PSO;

e Reduced tax deduction in monthly salaries; and

e Challenges in calculating tax amounts due to fortnightly fuel price revision by
the Government would be addressed.
6. Financial Impact:
e Fuel cost per liter at prevailing market is assumed at Rs. 270 per liter;
e As there is no change from Grades G-3 to G-7, hence no corresponding financial
impact;
e The employees at Grades G-1 & G-2 shall be allotted new fuel limits in place of
the existing fixed conveyance allowance. This shall translate into a monthly
impact of around Rs. 1.5 million.

The matter is brought before the HR Committee for its review and_ further
recommendations to the Board.
Note for Approval
Date: 5° December, 2023 PSW/HR & Fin./2023-24/

 

To: Chief Executive Officer (CEO)

From: CHRO & CFO
Subject: Issuance of Employees’ PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

 

 

 

 

In pursuance of the direction of the 13 Human Resource (HR) Committee meeting held on
13 September, 2023, the management has analyzed the possibility of replacing the existing
cash-based fuel allowance system with a fuel card to align the employment benefits with the
prevailing market practices. Based on the analysis of services provided by various fuel suppliers,
the management proposes the adoption of the Pakistan State Oil (PSO) Fuel Cards for all
employees to replace the existing fuel allowance system. This transition promises numerous
advantages, such as streamlined expense management, real-time tracking, and various other
benefits.

In facilitating this transition, key steps include contracting with PSO, a state-owned entity, as
the designated card and fuel provider at government announced rates along with
communication and handholding of employees. The transition would require amending the
Compensation and Benefits grid previously approved by the Board vide Resolution through
Circulation No. 10 dated 3 May, 2021. A detailed working paper has been developed by the
management to support the proposed transition which is attached at Annex-A. The estimated
financial impact based on the current workforce of the employees is Rs.1.5 million, mostly due
to substitution of the conveyance allowance of Rs.8000/- per month for employees in Grades
G-1 & G-2 with a fuel card equivalent to the approved 80 liters limit at actual cost,

Subsequent to the favorable recommendation of the HR Committee, the Board's approval is
solicited for:
e Amending the compensation and benefits grid to substitute the existing fuel allowance
with fuel cards of equal values for all employees from Grade G-1 to Grade G-7,
e Stopping the conveyance allowance of Rs.8000/- per month for Grade G-1 and Grade
G-2 on provision of the fuel card.
¢ Allowing employees, the option of claiming their unutilized balances twice a year on
31% December and 30* June, or as part of their final settlement in case of end of their
omplowp with the company, subject to applicable withholding tax.

> ff Ader

! }, M
Chief Human Resource Officer Chief Financial Officer

  
   

 

Company ecretary

   
    
 

Disclosures: /
1. Is the employee or his/her relat}

contract or arrangement: NO.
2. Have all the relevant rules an codal formalities been complied with: YES.
3. Isa legal opinion required:

e, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
Annexure-A

PSO Fuel Cards in Lieu of Fuel Allowance

1. Executive Summary

This working paper explores the potential transition from the traditional fuel allowance system
to a more efficient and employee-friendly solution: the use of digital fuel cards. Our objective
is to enhance expense management while ensuring convenience for our workforce.
Dissatisfaction among lower-grade employees and challenges with reimbursement as taxable
income, coupled with fluctuating fuel rates, have underscored the need for a more streamlined
approach. This paper outlines key findings and recommendations for implementing fuel cards
and the benefits they offer.

2. Introduction

The current method of providing monthly fuel allowances to employees has proven less
efficient and less cost-effective due to various factors. In light of these challenges, our
organization is considering the adoption of fuel cards as a more convenient means for
employees to manage their fuel expenses.

3. Background

Currently, the system involves granting a monthly cash allowance to employees for their fuel
expenses. The Board approved Conveyance and Fuel Allowances on vide Resolution through
Circulation No. 10 dated 3 May, 2021, as outlined below:

Allowance

Conveyance
Allowance

 

It is important to note that while presenting previous policy for approval Grade G-1 & G-2 were
allocated 80 liters at the rate of Rs. 100 while for other grades, the fuel amount was to be re-
imbursed at the prevailing market rate.

4. Rationale for transition

Employees, especially those in Grade G-1 and G-2, have been struggling with rising fuel costs
since early last year. While the monetary impact of the higher fuel costs for Grade G-3 and
above has been absorbed by the company, the real income of the employees in these grades
has decreased due to higher tax liability. 85% of Grade G-1 and G-2 employees who resigned
citing “Better Compensation” mentioned non-availability of fuel either in cash or in the form of
card as a major reason for the switch to a new workplace. 90% of Grade G-3 and above resigned

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO,

2. Have ail the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
employees who received cash amount as per grade wise fuel limit mentioned additional tax
deduction as an area of concern for them in their exit interviews.

Accordingly, the management proposes switching to the fuel card system and allowing fuel
allowance to Grade G-1 & G-2 employees on an actual cost basis. To assess the feasibility and
benefits of fuel cards, the Accounts & Finance department conducted a comprehensive review
of the current system, researched industry best practices, and gathered employee feedback
through exit interviews. Additionally, potential fuel card providers were also evaluated
ultimately selecting Pakistan State Oil (PSO) based on the following criteria:

5.

PSO's status as a state-owned entity.

Extensive network coverage.

Availability of fuel even during Fuel crisis, lubricants, and related services.

An automated card system with digital access to PSO via the PSW web portal.

Benefits of Fuel Cards

Fuel cards offer several advantages some of which are:

6.

Streamlined and paperless expense management.

Real-time expense tracking and reporting.

Customizable spending limits and restrictions.

Enhanced security with PIN and fraud protection.

Access to a network of fuel stations for added convenience.

Improved compliance with expense policies.

Reduced tax deduction in monthly salaries.

Challenges in calculating tax amounts due to fortnightly fuel price revision by the

Government would be addressed.

Implementation Plan

The implementation plan for introducing fuel cards includes the following key steps:

Onboarding of PSO as the fuel card provider.

Development of a communication plan to inform employees about the transition.
Distribution of fuel cards to eligible employees via the PSW web portal, managed by
authorized HR & Admin personnel.

Training sessions to educate employees on the prudent use of fuel cards.

Disclosures:
1. Is the employee ar his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.
2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.
3. Is. a legal opinion required: NO.
7. Silent Features

e PSO Fuel Cards shall be issued to all employees in accordance with the HR Committees’
recommendation.

e Fuel Cards shall be topped up in rupee value on prevailing fuel price every month with
respective assigned limits for previous completed month or period.

e¢ PSO web portal will provide the periodic consumption pattern and analysis thereon.

e Individual employees’ cash balances shall be carried forwarded to the next month.

e Any unutilized balance may be claimed by the employee in cash twice a year on 315t
December or 30 June, or on the last day of their service with PSW subject to deduction
of withholding taxes where applicable.

e In the case of employee resignation, employee will only be entitled for fuel for the
number of days served. Any over usage would be recovered through the final settlement
of the employee.

e New joiners will be issued card with cash fuel limit based on the number of remaining
days of the month.

We are in negotiation with PSO representatives, who assured us to waive the initial Rs. 500
Plastic Card Fee for each employee and also reduced maintenance fee from 1.75% to 0.5%. The
same may be further reduced at the time of implementation of the scheme subject to certain
conditions.

8. Financial Impact

e Fuel cost per liter at prevailing market is assumed at @ PKR 270 per liter.

e There is no change from Grades G-3 to G-7, hence no corresponding financial impact.

e Around 48 employees in Grade G-2 and 65 employees in Grade G-1 will get PSO Card
along with all other employees for their respective limit of 80 liters instead of previously
fixed allowance of Rs. 8,000/- with monthly impact of around Rs.1.5 million.

9. Employee Communication and Training

Effective communication and training will be essential to the success of the transition. We will
develop clear communication materials and conduct training sessions to ensure that employees
fully understand how to use fuel cards and the benefits they offer.

10. Recommendations

Based on the employees’ concerns, feedback, findings and analysis in this working paper, it is
proposed to:

e Amend the compensation and benefits grid to substitute the existing fuel allowance

with fuel cards of equal values for all employees from Grades G-1 to G-7.
Disclosures:
1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.
2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.
3. Is alegal opinion required: NO.
e Stop the conveyance allowance of Rs.8000/- for Grade G-1 and G-2 on provision of the
fuel card with an 80-liter monthly limit.

e Allow employees the option of claiming their unutilized balances twice a year on 31*
December and 30 June, or as part of their final settlement in case of end of their
employment with the company subject to applicable withholding tax.

Note: PSO Offer Letter Enclosed.

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
Pakistan State Oil Company Limited

PSO House, Khayaban-e-Iqbal, Clifton, Karachi-75600, Pakistan.
UAN: 111-111-PSO (776), Website: www.psopk.com

 

Dated: September 19, 2023
Ref: MYS/PSO/Cards/PS WA9-22

To,

Muhammad Mubashar Bashir,

M&A Pakistan Single Window,

Islamabad.
Subject: PSO Customized Cards Proposal - PSW
Dear Sir,

Please refer to our meeting dated September 18, 2023 held in your office. We thank you for your interest in
developing business relationship with PSO Cards.

Pakistan State Oil being the largest oi! marketing company of Pakistan with a footprint of more than 3,500 outlets
is a leading Fuel Card Issuer pan Pakistan. With nearly two decades of experience in cards management, PSO is
providing a comprehensive fuel management solution via its array of Cards to over 6,500) corporate customers
including all major Government institutions, Telcos, Logistics & Transportation Companies, FMCGs, Financial
Institutions, Manufacturing sector ete. through card network of nearly 1900+ retail outlets.

PSO cards program is a value addition for your organization and serves as a modem alternative to conventional
and unsecure fuel vouchers used by organizations earlier. Innovative products and services, and superior
technology-base are what represent PSO’s corporate philosophy and gives us the competitive edge over our
competitors.

We would like to submit hereunder our comprehensive and most considered PSO Cards proposal for M/s Pakistan
Single Window (PSW) Besides various other benefits associated with PSO Cards, you enjoy confidence of product
availability at PSO retail outlets even during Umes of acute fuel shortages in the market.

Flexibility in Cards Selection

PSO Cards program is designed to satisfy cach customer fuel management requirements and offer various
alternative options. The most suitable option as per your requirement is as below:

PSO Reloadable Card
The PSO Reloadable Card is designed to complement an organization’s commercial or non-commercial
fueling requirements where the volume of monthly consumption is greater than Rs. 05 Mn and security

deposit of such amount can block sufficient funds of the customer. Further, the reloadable cards offer to
carry forward the balance amount so that it can be utilized in subsequent months.

We would also like to highlight hereunder a few key features of PSO Cards.

« Smart Card Technology * Number Of Days Allowed On Each Card
# PSO Fuelink Web Portal « Product Specific Restrictions
« PSO SMS Alert Service « Lubricants Through Cards
« Card Specific Weekly/Monthly/Daily, Per e §6Card Specific Reports
Transaction Limits ® Network Coverage And Connectivity
e ‘ferritory/ Region/Outlet Wise Restrictions « Customer Support

i of 2

* MCS-001
The benefits to Pakistan Single Window by migration to PSO Fuel cards are:

© Security and savings through climination of
pilerage ana misuse

leconomizing fucl expenses

Fnhanecs fleet management

7ero risk of cash handling

Elimination of paper work

Reduction of fueling me

Reduction of administrative work and reduces
risks of cash-handline

@

eo © © @€ ©

*

Comprehensive monthis MIS and card usage
reporis

Additional controls and customization options
for each curd

Vlectronically generated receipis

Flexibility and convenience of using u station

ofone’s cholee

We would fike ty summarize the special aomsidered cite: for Pakistan Single Window (PSW) 4s ander

  
 
  

 
   

 

TERMS

  

Billmg Cyele

Account Limit

 

 

Reloadable Account

, tS? a of Payment amount

 

 

PROPOSAL

 

+ AS ner customer convenience

 

 

Service Charges (°0} ; aa ama
volume)
Lat Payment Surcharge - Not App /
Cards membership charges cper card) Rs, S000 Waiver subject i) management approval)
Fucl Management System (Web Porial) PSO Fuellink Factig 247 POC)

 

SMS Alerts

email Alerts

Real Tine
Daily. Weekly. Morithiy

 

Note. The shove proposal is subject to the PSO's management's approval once we conclude terms for the business.

We are confident that the above proposal would attract your interest in developing business relationship with PSO
and look forward to have a pookive resporise fer miatuul benefits and lulure prospective.

Assuring vou our eatreme coeperation at all Gimes.

 

rad ousaf Suri
Terjfors Manager - Cards & Marketing Alliances (Northi
Caflls & NER Department

PSO Regional Office, Islamabad

Coll # 0333-7820) 19 0346-8202504

 
