Roadblock in Registering the Provident Fund Trust & Alternative Options 
Summary 
1.  For the facilitation and benefit of employees, PSW initially introduced “Provident 
Fund” Scheme, which was approved by the Board in its 10th meeting held on 28th 
October, 2021. 
 
2. Despite numerous efforts due to legal issues, the Provident Fund of PSW is still not 
registered. The unregistered Provident Fund does not fulfill the purpose of 
facilitating employees in different perspectives of financial support, tax redemption 
etc. Furthermore, this may invite observations from the Securities and Exchange 
Commission of Pakistan (SECP). 
 
3. After deliberating the matter internally and consulting the legal advisor, it was 
decided to discontinue the existing Provident Fund & opt for “Voluntary Pension 
Scheme” (VPS) which is licensed & regulated by the SECP under the VPS rules, 2005. 
This will result in no additional liability on part of PSW. 
 
4. VPS accounts are to be opened with an Asset Management Company (AMC) 
registered with the SECP. The management proposes National Bank of Pakistan 
(NBP) Funds as the AMC to move forward with as it has an outstanding credit rating 
of ‘AM-1’ by PACRA. It ranks among the largest AMCs in Pakistan. 
 
5. Additionally, negotiations are underway with NBP Funds to secure bulk discounts, 
fee exemptions etc. 
 
6. The transition from PF to VPS promises various benefits, some of which are: 
• The new arrangement serves as a protective shield against potential accounting, 
taxation, or legal complications arising from foreseeable delays in the 
registration of PF; 
• Employer contributions to employee’s VPS accounts quality as an admissible tax 
deduction; 
• Replacement of PF with VPS necessitates no additional contribution; 
• No need of individual employee record keeping; 
• VPS is a customizable retirement saving scheme that shall allow employees to 
design their own financial plans; 
• Employees enjoy complete autonomy over their funds; 
• Employees have the complete freedom to withdraw funds as needed or make 
additional deposits etc. 
 
 
7. Recommendations: 
• Discontinue and close the non-registered problematic PF Scheme. 
• Return the employees’ balances as of the suggested cutoff date of 31st 
December, 2023. 
• Starting 1st January, 2024, the new arrangement will be implemented. The 
employer’s 8.33% salary contribution for each employee will be invested in 
their respective VPS Fund Account, with no additional liability on part of the 
employer. 
• Execute the required process to operationalize the new arrangement led by 
the Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO) and the Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) to complete formalities such as onboarding the NBP Fund, employees 
handholding, opening accounts, negotiating benefits and securing bulk 
discounts which includes exemptions from fees, commissions charges, front-
end or back-end loads and other additional benefits etc. 

Roadblock in Registering the Provident Fund Trust & Alternative Options

Summary

1. For the facilitation and benefit of employees, PSW initially introduced “Provident
Fund” Scheme, which was approved by the Board in its 10 meeting held on 28%
October, 2021.

2. Despite numerous efforts due to legal issues, the Provident Fund of PSW is still not
registered. The unregistered Provident Fund does not fulfill the purpose of
facilitating employees in different perspectives of financial support, tax redemption
etc. Furthermore, this may invite observations from the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Pakistan (SECP).

3. After deliberating the matter internally and consulting the legal advisor, it was
decided to discontinue the existing Provident Fund & opt for “Voluntary Pension
Scheme” (VPS) which is licensed & regulated by the SECP under the VPS rules, 2005.
This will result in no additional liability on part of PSW.

4. VPS accounts are to be opened with an Asset Management Company (AMC)
registered with the SECP. The management proposes National Bank of Pakistan
(NBP) Funds as the AMC to move forward with as it has an outstanding credit rating
of ‘AM-1’ by PACRA. It ranks among the largest AMCs in Pakistan.

5. Additionally, negotiations are underway with NBP Funds to secure bulk discounts,
fee exemptions etc.

6. The transition from PF to VPS promises various benefits, some of which are:

e The new arrangement serves as a protective shield against potential accounting,
taxation, or legal complications arising from foreseeable delays in the
registration of PF;

e Employer contributions to employee’s VPS accounts quality as an admissible tax
deduction;

e Replacement of PF with VPS necessitates no additional contribution;

e Noneed of individual employee record keeping;

e VPS is a customizable retirement saving scheme that shall allow employees to
design their own financial plans;

e Employees enjoy complete autonomy over their funds;

e Employees have the complete freedom to withdraw funds as needed or make
additional deposits etc.
7. Recommendations:

Discontinue and close the non-registered problematic PF Scheme.

Return the employees’ balances as of the suggested cutoff date of 31%
December, 2023.

Starting 15t January, 2024, the new arrangement will be implemented. The
employer’s 8.33% salary contribution for each employee will be invested in
their respective VPS Fund Account, with no additional liability on part of the
employer.

Execute the required process to operationalize the new arrangement led by
the Chief Human Resource Officer (CHRO) and the Chief Financial Officer
(CFO) to complete formalities such as onboarding the NBP Fund, employees
handholding, opening accounts, negotiating benefits and securing bulk
discounts which includes exemptions from fees, commissions charges, front-
end or back-end loads and other additional benefits etc.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

Note for Approval

 

Date: 5 December, 2023 PSW/HR & Fin./2023-24/

To: Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
From: CHRO & CFO

 

 

Subject: Roadblock in Registering the Provident Fund Trust & Alternative Options

The Board of Directors (BoD) approved the “PSW Employees’ Provident Fund” in the 10‘
meeting of the Board dated 28" October, 2021, along with the Trust Deed and Rules.

Despite persistent efforts, the Company's Provident Fund Trust has not been registered or
officially recognized due to legal complexities, rendering it without legal effect and currently in
a state of suspension.

Concerned about the potential for this situation to persist for an extended period, with
associated risks and non-compliance issues for the PSW Company and its management, PSW
has engaged in collaborative discussions with legal counsel, tax advisors, other professionals
and experts to explore alternative options.

Based on these consultations, the management proposes to discontinue the existing provident
fund scheme. The new option allows the employees to invest in professionally managed
Voluntary Pension Scheme (VPS) Funds licensed and regulated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Pakistan (SECP) under the VPS Rules, 2005. Under this proposal, PSW will
deposit the 8.33% contractual contribution into the chosen Fund Account of each employee
with effect from 1% January, 2024.

A detailed working paper incorporating feedback received from the senior management and
PSW employees has been developed which is attached at Annex-A for submission to the
Board.

/
vW f oh abo

Chief Financial Officer

    

y Secretary

Disclosures:
1. Is the employee or his/her relat/vé, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or

contract or arrangement: NO.
2. Have all the relevant rules and (dal formalities been complied with: YES.
3. fs a legal opinion required: NO. (Already obtained)
 PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

Annexure-A

Working Paper
Discontinuation of Provident Fund Scheme & Implementation of New Alternative

BACKGROUND:

In accordance with industry conventions and best practices, corporate, commercial, and
industrial organizations are obligated to establish retirement savings benefit plans for their
employees’. After consultations with relevant authorities who affirmed that PSW Company
could choose between Provident Schemes (funded by a defined contribution from employer
and employee both) and Gratuity Schemes (funded by employer only as per actuarial
estimates), both prevalent in the corporate sector, PSW Company, guided by stakeholders and
through internal deliberation, proposed the "Employees' Provident Fund Scheme."
Subsequently, the trust deed & rules were approved by the Company's Board of Directors.

In the past, a single federal law governed trust registration across Pakistan. However, over
recent years, each province has introduced its own trust laws and regulations, including the
Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT). These new statutes presented legal ambiguities concerning
the registration of specialized funds such as pension, gratuity, and provident funds. While the
Islamabad Capital Territory Trust Act, 2020, was amended through an ordinance on November
5, 2021, it subsequently lapsed after 120 days, leaving the current legal status uncertain.

Due to this legal vacuum and the absence of a clearly defined authority in any law, registering
non-personal or specialized trusts like the "Provident Fund Trust" proved challenging. Despite
our best efforts, including interactions with various offices such as the Securities & Exchange
Commission of Pakistan (SECP), the Federal Board of Revenue (FBR), the Directorate of Labour
& Industries, Civil Administration Office etc., we encountered roadblocks. After exhaustive
attempts and consultations, we sought legal advice? from our counsel, who recommended the
following:

“\.. Writ may be initiated in this regard to obtain further clarity regarding the status of the

law. However, this may take an unidentified time period.

Because of the foregoing, PSW_may explore the option to establish a Voluntary Pension
Scheme for employees....”

   

| Unlike for qualified commercial and industrial establishments, the Industrial and Commercial Establishments (Standing

Orders) Ordinance, 1968 (applicable in ICT) which requires to pay “Gratuity” to a “worker” once he/she has met the

minimum criteria or equivalent employer's contributinon towards Provident Fund Scheme or any other retirement scheme

or pension Fund or equivalent thereto; PSW Company does not attract any statute, law or regulation for legally

compulsory retirement saving scheme. Since employees of the PSW falls outside the definition of the “worker” or

“workman” as mentioned therein.

2 See detailed email / legal opinion attached

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
se PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

The delays in trust registrations drew audit observations? and raised concerns, including a letter
from the SECP regarding the segregation of trust funds in a separate bank account from the
company's funds.

Furthermore, we encountered accounting and legal challenges related to income treatment,
contributions, taxation, prescribed investments, separate accounting books, statutory audits,
and employees' legitimate withdrawal rights as per statutory rules*. In essence, all operations
and compliance were at a standstill, except for payments to departing employees after
significant withholding taxes were deducted.

Even after trust registration, as a separate legal entity distinct from the Company,
administrative challenges would persist, such as recognition by the FBR under Part-! of the
Sixth Schedule of the Income Tax Ordinance, 2001, tax exemptions from the FBR, trust
operations, investments governed by SECP prescribed rules, taxation on excess markup, profit,
and contributions, separate accounting books, loan records, withdrawals, collections,
settlements, and periodic independent external audits.

As previously mentioned, obtaining a court directive through a writ petition for specialized
trust registration could take an indefinite amount of time. Moreover, given the absence of a
sitting parliament and the potential non-priority of this issue, new legislation is highly unlikely
to be enacted soon. These circumstances compelled PSW Company to explore alternative
options among the available choices and introduce a revised or new retirement savings benefit
scheme.

Therefore, we revisited and explored various options and their variants, including:
1. Statutory Provident Fund under Provident Fund Act, 19255

2. Provident Fund under Chapter XV, Part | of Income Tax Ordinance 2001

3. Superannuation Fund under Chapter XV, Part Il of Income Tax Ordinance 2001

4. Grauity Fund/Scheme under Chapter XV, Part Ill of Income Tax Ordinance 2001

5. Approved Income Payment Plan® defined in Section 2(3B) of Income Tax Ordinance
2001 and regulated by SECP’s Regulations

6. Approved Annuity Plan’ defined in Section 2(3A) of Income Tax Ordinance 2001 and

regulated by SECP’s Regulations

3 Under the various provisions especially Section 218, 219 & 479 of Companies Act, 2017. Section 218 Employees’ provident funds,

contributory retirement funds andvsecurities; stipulates distinctions through a separate bank account, payment mode and modalities of

investment thereof. Section 219 Penalty for contravention; direct that any offence under section 218 is liable to a penalty of Level-1 and

actual loss. Whereas Section 479 Adjudication of offences and standard scale of penalty, elaborates Level1 penalties i.e. Rs. 25,000 and

Rs. 500 per day during the default continues.

4 Chapter XV, Part I, Provident Fund Rules 103 to 107 of the Income Tax Ordinance 2001

5 The Provident Fund Scheme which is managed and invested by a government-appointed authority. The fund typically

accumulates over the course of an employee's career and is accessible upon retirement, resignation, or under specific

circumstances outlined in the Act. The Act establishes the framework for its operation and administration.

6 means an Income Payment Plan approved by SECP under VPS and offered by a Pension Fund Manager registered with the

SECP under VPS Rules 2005. If a participant can afford to assume risk in expectation of returns that are above moderate, he

should buy an approved income payment plan. The expectation of above moderate returns implies it can work both ways i.e. a

participant can experience lower payments of income as well as the returns can be above moderate.

7 means an Annuity Plan approved by SECP under VPS Rules and offered by a Life Insurance Company registered with the SECP

under Insurance Ordinance 2000 An approved annuity plan is the plan approved by the SECP and offered by the life insurance

companies authorized by the SECP. An annuity by its very nature can be called a financial plan that makes a regular stream of

payments to the annuity holder. A participant is required to deposit a lump-sum amount with the insurance company to

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

7. Voluntary Pension Scheme® under SECP’s VPS Rules 2005.?

(Note: See Comparative Analysis at Annexure-B)

While researching retirement benefit plans in Pakistan, we also conducted a comparative
analysis of compensation practices related to retirement savings plans in other developed
countries. Notably, we came across the dynamic and forward-looking 401(k) plan in the USA",

In Europe, the equivalent of USA's 401(k) plans varies by country due to differences in tax laws,
social welfare systems, and labor regulations. Retirement savings structures differ across
European nations, with some offering automatic enrollment in State-Owned Saving Schemes
with opt-out options, private plans, Occupational Schemes, Individual Retirement Accounts
(IRAs), and more.

Upon further inquiries with our legal counsel, tax advisors, and professional colleagues in
similar organizations, we identified various roadblocks similar to provident fund registration
and other challenges, such as compliance and administration costs, the absence or minimal tax
incentives for employees, and disallowance of expenses for PSW Company in the absence of
registration.

After careful consideration, we have determined that the optimal choice is the direct
investment in the Voluntary Pension Scheme (VPS) introduced by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Pakistan (SECP) in 2005**. An increasing number of forward-thinking
organizations have embraced this option. It not only complies with the latest legislation and
benefits from SECP's robust oversight and controls but also offers unparalleled flexibility in
terms of diverse retirement savings plans. It provides a multitude of options, including Islamic
and conventional choices, catering to various risk appetites such as equity, sukuk, debt, money-
market, or combinations thereof. Moreover, it can be converted into an "approved income
payment plan" or an "approved annuity plan." VPS is agnostic when it comes to Asset
Management Companies (AMC) and funds, and contributions from both employees and
employers enjoy immediate tax credits. Additionally, the income generated from VPS enjoys
deferred tax benefits.

Furthermore, VPS represents the most straightforward option for companies like PSW to
implement, administer, and execute. It qualifies as an allowable corporate expense, which is

purchase an approved annuity plan. Upon receipt of the amount, the life insurance company shall start paying regular income to

the participant in accordance with the plan he has selected.

8 VPS is regulated by the SECP, which entails: (a) Registration of pension fund managers; (b) Authorizing pension funds; (c)

Prescribing investment and allocation policy for pension funds; (d) Monitoring the performance of pension funds and

protecting the interests of pension fund account holders through enforcement; (e) Carrying out periodic comparison of all

pension funds in terms of performance and cost, and publishing easily understood performance measures.

° A Concise Guide for Investors on VPS by Mutual Funds Association Of Pakistan is also attached and available at

https://mufap.com.pk/pdf/SECP_guideline_MF_PF/PensionFundsn.pdf. For further details, you can also visit

https://jamapunji.pk, an investor education initiative by SECP.

10 A 401(k) of USA is similar to SECP's VPS in Pakistan, funded by contribution by employee and employer, flexible, employer

agnostic. The money grows tax-deferred until retirement, at which point it's taxed when withdrawn. Early withdrawals before

age of 60 may incur penalties. Employees can typically choose from various investment options. Vesting rules may apply to

employer contributions. It's a crucial tool for long-term retirement planning, offering tax benefits and the potential for financial

security in retirement.

" This option was even otherwise available to the employee to invest in VPS by transferring the balance of

provident fund but in case of registered, approved and recognized provident fund trust, under clause (aa) of Rule

103 of Part-I of Chapter XV of Income Tax Rules 2002, introduced by SRO 815(1)/2008 dated 01-08-2008.

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

not the case with unregistered provident funds or gratuity funds, where tax authorities
typically disallow employer contributions.12

RATIONALE:

Based on the aforementioned considerations, we are suggesting and have formulated a scheme
that allows all our existing employees to enroll in the VPS under the regulations set forth by
the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP) in 2005. This scheme offers
significant benefits, flexibility, and is akin to retirement savings plans like the 401(k) plan in the
USA or similar plans in developed countries.

Following approval from the Board, we will discontinue the non-registered provident fund
scheme and will return the balances (as of 31%t December 2023 or earlier) to the respective
employees.

Subsequently from 1st January 2024, the employer's 8.33% monthly salary contribution for
each employee will be invested in their respective VPS Fund Account, with no additional
liability on the part of the employer."

All employees will be eligible for this new scheme.

PSW will facilitate all employees to open their respective VPS Fund Account. These accounts
will be managed by eligible Asset Management Companies (AMCs) registered with SECP. For
this purpose, we have selected the Asset Management Company associated with the National
Bank of Pakistan, namely "NBP Funds?’.”

NBP Funds has outstanding credit rating of "AM1," which is the highest investment rating in
Pakistan as designated by PACRA. It also ranks among the largest AMCs with assets under
management exceeding Rs. 277 billion as of July 31, 2023.

(Note: See Comparative Analysis at Annexure-C)

Additionally, negotiations are underway with NBP Funds to secure bulk discounts, including
exemptions from fees, commissions, charges, front-end or back-end loads.

Furthermore, we aim to procure, for our employees from NBP Funds, value-added benefits
such as supplementary medical and life insurance coverage. For instance, in the event of
natural death, an employee's VPS balance may be doubled, and in the case of accidental death,
the payout will be further enhanced.

Weare also exploring additional provisions for coverage related to terminal illness, permanent
disability, accidental medical expenses, and hospitalization. All new features subsequently
introduced by NBP Funds will also be extended to PSW employees.

Every month, 8.33% employer’s contribution will be invested into the employees’ respective
VPS Accounts. NBP Funds offers management of these VPS Accounts through various digital

12 Section 21 - Deductions not allowed, Clause (e) any contribution made by the person to a fund that is not a recognized

provident fund, approved pension fund, approved superannuation fund or approved gratuity fund

13 https://www.nbpfunds.com/

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Isa legal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

channels, including web, mobile, SMS, and call centers. This accessibility will empower
individual employees to have real-time control and monitoring over their investments

TRANSITION BENEFITS:

1. The new arrangement by PSW company serves as a protective shield against potential
accounting, taxation, or legal complications arising from foreseeable delays in the
registration and recognition of trust, and the subsequent audit observations or possible
interventions from the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP).

2. Employer contributions to employees’ VPS Fund Accounts qualify as an admissible tax
deduction for PSW Company. No additional registration or approval is required beyond
the endorsement of the Board of Directors of PSW Company.

3. Transitioning to any other funded scheme, such as a Gratuity Fund Scheme, would
necessitate an additional contribution of approximately Rs. 40 million to meet
operational requirements based on actuarial valuations. In contrast, replacement of PF
with VPS carries no financial, taxation, or cash flow implications for the company.

4. This transition not only enhances flexibility but also results in cost savings for PSW in
terms of compliance costs, operational resources, management time, and eliminates
associated risks. There is no need to maintain individual records of employees for
prescribed investments, loans, withdrawals, collections, profit allocations, taxation, or
conduct statutory audits of the fund trust.

5. VPS is subject to rigorous regulation and monitoring by SECP and is managed by
professional fund managers with expertise in investment and risk management. In
contrast, Gratuity or Provident Funds are typically managed in-house and may lack risk
diversification and access to higher levels of investment management expertise.

6. PSW's employees will also benefit from tax credits equivalent to the average tax rate
for the Tax Year in which their investments are made, resulting in reduced taxation
burdens.

7. Additionally, unlike certain other schemes, the accumulated profits within VPS remain
tax-free.

8. VPS offers compelling growth potential due to factors such as compounding interest
on investments, coupled with its tax-free status, making it one of the most attractive
retirement savings schemes across various risk categories.

KEY FEATURES:

9. VPS is a highly customizable retirement saving scheme, allowing individuals or
employees to design their own financial plans based on their total working life, risk
tolerance, and post-retirement monthly income requirements.

10. Employees enjoy full autonomy over their investments and retirement plans, with the
ability to accelerate their savings by injecting additional funds or adjusting their risk
allocation to align with their evolving needs. This includes the flexibility to annually
modify their risk appetite, such as increasing or decreasing their allocations to

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. ts a legal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

underlying sub-funds like equity, debt, money-market, government securities, or
Islamic sukuk. In the case of Islamic VPS, investments adhere to approved shariah-
compliant avenues as guided by respective shariah advisors.

11. Typically, VPS comprises three main Sub-Funds:

e "Equity Sub-Fund": Primarily focused on long-term capital growth through
investments in equity securities, with a minimum of 90% of its net asset value
in listed shares.

e "Debt Sub-Fund": Aims to provide income and capital preservation by primarily
investing in tradable debt securities, with a maximum weighted average
maturity of five years.

e “Money Market Sub-Fund": Prioritizes maximum capital preservation by primarily
investing in short-term money market securities, with a maximum average
maturity of 90 days. Employees of varying age groups have the flexibility to
choose allocations that align with their life cycle and risk preferences.

12. Employees have the complete freedom to withdraw funds as needed and make
additional deposits to align with their retirement planning objectives.

13. Upon retirement, 50% of the account balance can be withdrawn immediately, tax-free,
while the remaining 50% can be received as a monthly income for a period spanning 10
to 15 years. Alternatively, employees may choose to withdraw the remaining amount
earlier, subject to certain conditions.

14. In the event of an employee's withdrawal before reaching the age of 60, the approved
VPS operator or fund manager will withhold tax at the average employee's tax rate for
the past three years. However, this tax is adjustable, and employees can request tax
adjustments in their monthly salary tax deductions from their current employer.

15. Since full control rests with the employee, they retain the freedom to manage their VPS
account at their discretion even after departing from PSW, without any intervention
required from the company.

HOW TO OPERATIONALIZE THE TRANSITION:
To operationalize the transition, we may follow the following stepwise approach:

a) Awareness Presentation:

Begin by conducting an informative presentation to all employees regarding discontinuation of
PF and introducing new VPS scheme. This presentation should highlight the benefits, flexibility,
and advantages of VPS compared to the existing PF.

b) Employee Support and Advisory Desks:

e Collaborate with NBP Funds to establish dedicated advisory desks at Karachi and
Islamabad, to assist employees with their inquiries.

e Provide literature and additional presentations to employees to help them make informed
decisions regarding their risk preferences and investment plans.

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is alegal opinion required: NO.
So PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

e These advisory desks should be staffed with knowledgeable professionals who can guide
employees through the VPS account opening process and address any concerns.

c) HR & Finance Facilitation:

The HR & Finance departments play a crucial role in facilitating the transition. They should:

e Communicate all necessary information to employees.

e Ensure that required documentation is completed, including consent forms and any
addendums to employment letters.

« Assist employees in submitting the necessary paperwork and information to transition
smoothly.

e Collaborate closely with NBP Funds to streamline the onboarding process.

By following these steps, we will ensure a well-informed and smooth onboarding process for
all employees, with adequate support and guidance at every stage. This approach will help our
employees understand the benefits of VPS and make informed decisions about their
investment plans.

RECOMMENDATION:
Keeping the above in view, we kindly request the approval to:
1. Discontinue and close the non-registered problematic PF Scheme.
2. Return the employees’ balances as of the suggested cutoff date of 31°* December 2023.

3. Starting January 1, 2024, the new arrangement will be implemented. The employer's
8.33% monthly salary contribution for each employee will be invested in their
respective VPS Fund Account, with no additional liability on the part of the employer.

4. Execute the required process to operationalize the new arrangement, jointly or
severally, led by CHRO & CFO, to complete formalities such as onboarding the NBP
Fund, employees’ handholding, openings accounts, negotiating benefits and securing
bulk discounts, which includes exemptions from fees, commissions, charges, front-end
or back-end loads, and other additional benefits etc.

Disclosures:

1. Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or
contract or arrangement: NO.

2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

Annexure-B
: Loan Advance or Early

Comparative Analysis

: Laws & Approval & FBR ,
Alternatives Regulations Approval Tax Benefit

. : Trust FBR ss Profit Final
Alternatives Regulations Registration Contribution Accumulation

   
 

    
 

         
      

Separate
Funds &
Investment

Separate
Books of
Accounts

  
   
 

     
     

  
  
  

Management
by Trustee

     
 
  

             

  
     
 
  

 
 

     
   
    
 

Chapter
XV, Part | Yes u/s
. of Income Limited to Limited to Yesasper | Yes As per
Provident Fund Tax Yes 150K 16% Yes 218 of CA | Yes Yes Rules Rules
Ordinance

 
 

2001

   
  
 
   
  

Approval
from
Federal

  
  
 
 

   

Provident
Fund Act,
1925

  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   
  

Maintained
by Govt.

Maintained
by Govt.

Statutory
Provident Fund

  
  

     
 

  
   
   

Chapter
XV, Part Il
of Income
Tax

Ordinance
2001

     

Superannuation

Yes with
Fund 218 of CA

conditioins 2017

     
   

   
   
  
    
 

Yes Yes Yes me No No
es

 
 
 
 
   

   
  
  
  
  
 

   
  
  
  
  

 
 
  
  
  
   

  
    
 

   
    
  
 

 
  
 

     

     
   
   
     
  
 

Chapter
XV, Part Ill No - Yes u/s No -
Grauity of Income Limited to | Acturial Acturial
Fund/Scheme Tax Yes y Yes N/A 300K Valuation 218 of CA Valuation
. . 2017 "
Ordinance Required Required
2001

 
 
    
   

 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  

 
   
   

   
  
   
   
  

 
    
   

 
   
 
 

  
  
  
 
  
 

Voluntary SECP’s VPS ofront & ves. tt Yes as per

Pension Rules 2005 Yes Yes 50% to ject to tax

Scheme *** u Monthly - a t t adjustment
Adustable agjustmen

Disclosures:

1. ts the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or contract or arrangement: NO,
2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.

3. Isalegal opinion required: NO.
PSW

PAKISTAN SINGLE WINDOW

Annexure-C

Comparative of Assets Management Companies:

Number Dated as
AMC Name g of Funds of

    

 
   
    
    
 
 

   
  

Assets under
Management

       

v

 

NBP Fund Management Limited Stable | 277 Billion 22-Jun-23
HBL Asset Management Limitied Stable | 182 Billion 31-Jul-23

3
gement Li AM i
in

     

MCB Investment Management Limited 224 Billion 31-Aug-23
Faysal Asset Management Limited 100 Billion 31-Jul-23
ABL Asset Management Company Limited AM1 Stable 109 Billion 30-Aug-23

Note: AM1 is the highest credit rating for any Asset Management Company.

 

Disclosures:

1. _ Is the employee or his/her relative, in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in the proposed transaction or contract or arrangement: NO,
2. Have all the relevant rules and codal formalities been complied with: YES.
3. Is a legal opinion required: NO.
